<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Third-person Limited</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-1-13" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Third-person Limited</h3>
			<p>Perreault hadn’t needed Amitav’s permission, of course. She’d programmed the botflies to recognize him anyway. She’d dropped a cloud of mosquitoes, too, little flying sensors no bigger than rice grains. They were braindead, but they could afford to be; they relayed raw telemetry back to the ‘flies for all the <i>real</i> analysis. That increased coverage by an order of magnitude, at least until their batteries gave out.</p>
			<p>It would still be a crapshoot: a botfly or skeet would have to be line-of-sight with Amitav once she’d put out the call, and there’d have to be enough of him visible to make an ID⁠—very iffy, given the human congestion on the Strip. It would be easy enough for the stickman to hide, should he choose to.</p>
			<p>Still. Long odds were better than none.</p>
			<p>She finished a late supper across the table from her husband, noted his forlorn hopeless scrutiny almost in passing. Marty was doing his utmost, she knew⁠—giving space, giving support. Waiting for that predictable moment when the shock wore off, her defenses fell, and she needed help picking up the pieces. Every now and then Perreault would search herself for signs of that imminent breakdown. Nothing. The antidepressants were still having some effect, of course, even after her system had shocked itself into partial immunity; but that shouldn’t have been enough. She should be <i>feeling</i> something by now.</p>
			<p>She was. Intense, passionate, all-consuming. Curiosity.</p>
			<p>She squeezed Martin’s hand across the table and headed toward her office. It was almost a half-hour until her shift began, but nobody on the circuit minded if she started early. She slid into her seat⁠—a favored antique with flared arms and a skin of real leather⁠—and was reaching for her headset when her husband’s hand fell lightly onto her shoulder.</p>
			<p>“Why does she matter so much?” he asked. It was the first time he’d come into her office since the breakdown.</p>
			<p>“Marty, I’ve got to go to work.”</p>
			<p>He waited.</p>
			<p>She sighed and swiveled her chair to face him. “I don’t know. It’s⁠—it’s a mystery, I guess. Something to solve.”</p>
			<p>“It’s more than that.”</p>
			<p>“Why? Why does it have to be?” She heard the exasperation in her own voice, saw its effect on her husband. She took a breath and tried again. “I don’t know. It’s just⁠—you wouldn’t think a single person could count for much, but⁠—she’s making an impression, you know? At least on the Strip. She <i>matters</i>, somehow⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>Martin shook his head. “Is that what she is to you? A role model?”</p>
			<p>“I didn’t say⁠—”</p>
			<p>“She could be something else, Sou. What if she’s a fugitive?”</p>
			<p>“What?”</p>
			<p>“It must have crossed your mind. Someone from N’Am⁠—or I don’t know, not your standard refugee, anyway. Why’s she staying out on the Strip? Why doesn’t she want to go home? What’s she hiding from?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know. That’s what makes it a mystery.”</p>
			<p>“She could be dangerous.”</p>
			<p>“What, to me? She’s way out on the coast! She doesn’t even know I exist!”</p>
			<p>“Still. You should report it.”</p>
			<p>“Maybe.” Perreault swiveled deliberately back to her desk. “I really have to work now, Martin.”</p>
			<p>He wouldn’t have let her off so easily before, of course. But he knew his assigned role, he’d been coached by a half-dozen well-meaning authorities<i>. Your wife has just come through a very traumatic experience. She’s fragile. Let her move at her own pace.</i></p>
			<p>
				<i>Don’t push.</i>
			</p>
			<p>So he didn’t. A little piece of Sou-<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Hon.</abbr> felt guilty for taking advantage of that restraint. The rest was reveling in the cradling embrace of the headset around her skull, the sudden pinpoint control over what <i>was</i> and <i>wasn’t</i> perceived, the⁠—</p>
			<p>“<i>Semen-sucking savior,</i>” she whispered.</p>
			<p>The alert was flashing all over the left side of her visual field. One of the botflies had got a nibble. More than a nibble; a big predatory bite. It was hovering less than three meters off-target.</p>
			<p>Not Amitav either, this time. A marriage of flesh and machinery. One woman, with clockwork.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Deep night, beneath an endless cloudbank. Across the black water, floodlights and heaters smudged distant light along the Strip. Perreault triggered the photoamps.</p>
			<p>The mermaid crouched directly ahead on a jagged reef, a hundred-fifty meters from shore. The ocean, sparkling with microbial phosphorescence, tried to dislodge her. Between waves, the reef jutted a meter above the waterline, myriad tiny waterfalls draining down its sides; when the water crested the mermaid became a round black boulder herself, barely visible in the luminous foam.</p>
			<p>She climbed to her feet. The surge rose above her knees; she staggered, but stayed upright. Her face was a pale oval painted onto a black body. Her eyes were paler ovals painted onto her face. They panned past the hovering botfly.</p>
			<p>They did not seem to notice it.</p>
			<p>Her face tilted down, stared directly ahead. One slick ebony arm reached forward, the fingers extended; a blind woman, reaching for something she couldn’t see. Clarke’s mouth moved. Any words were lost in the roar of the surf. Perreault slid filters past critical thresholds. Ocean sounds squelched into silence. Now only the shriek of distant gulls and a few syllables:</p>
			<p>“No. Not⁠—<i>ain</i>.”</p>
			<p>Perreault squelched the high frequencies as well. Now the mermaid stood in an utterly silent tableau, the Pacific crashing soundlessly on all sides.</p>
			<p>“You never did,” she said. Tide surged silently between her legs. The mermaid’s reaching fingers closed around empty space. She seemed surprised.</p>
			<p>Another wave swept the reef. The mermaid staggered, recovered. Perreault noticed that both of her hands were balled into fists.</p>
			<p>“<i>Dad.</i>” Almost a whisper.</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Ms.</abbr> Clarke,” Perreault said. The mermaid did not respond.</p>
			<p><i>Right. The surf.</i> Perreault increased the volume, tried again: “<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Ms.</abbr> Clarke.”</p>
			<p>The mermaid’s head jerked up. “<i>You! What is it?</i>”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Ms.</abbr> Clarke, I’ve been⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Something in the food? Some sort of psychoactive? Is that what this is?”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Ms.</abbr> Clarke, I don’t know what⁠—”</p>
			<p>The mermaid smiled, a hideous baring of teeth beneath cold white eyespots. “Fine. I can take it. Do your worst.”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Ms.</abbr> Clarke⁠—”</p>
			<p>“This is fucking <i>nothing</i>. You just wait.”</p>
			<p>The Pacific surged silently up from behind her, swept her from the reef in the blink of an eye. The cameras caught a last freeze-framed moment: A fist, raised briefly above the boiling water. Gone.</p>
			<p>
				<i>This is fucking nothing. You just wait.</i>
			</p>
			<p>Sou-<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Hon.</abbr> Perreault didn’t know that she could.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
