<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Pixelpal</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter">
		<section id="chapter-1-12" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Pixelpal</h2>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>BCC5932 TRIGGER STIMULUS / THROUGHPUT INTERCEPT</p>
				<p>Obj. Class: file packet / benign</p>
				<p>Obj. Species: pers. comm. (NI) / packet 7 of 23 / voice modem decrypt</p>
				<p>Obj. Source: <i>corrupted</i></p>
				<p>Obj. Destination: multi (ref. <span epub:type="z3998:roman">cc</span>)</p>
				<p>EXCISE CRITERION: 255-CHR BRACKET INI/FIN TRIGGERING STIMULI.</p>
				<p>EXCERPT BEGINS</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>that likely to get away with it forever. A little too metallic if you know what I mean. Anyway, they haven’t caught us at it yet.</p>
			<p>We <i>did</i> get caught a few days back, though, over something else again. Except we lucked into this avenging angel. No shit. <b>Lenie Clarke</b>, her name was. It was our own stupid fault, I guess. Didn’t check for leakage when we logged on. Anyhow, <i>les beus</i> came down on us, they got everyone except Haj and me, and what could <i>we</i> do except run for it? And they had everybody down and all of a sudden there’s this K-selector walking out of nowhere, looks like one of those old litcrits with the teeth, you know, vampires. All in black and she’s wearing the absolute thickest ConTacs you ever saw, even thicker than <i>les beus</i>. Barely see her eyes behind them. Anyhow, she just walks out of the shadows and right into them.</p>
			<p>You wouldn’t think she’d last two seconds. I mean, she didn’t even <i>notice</i> the shockprods, I don’t think that suit of hers carries a charge, but <i>still</i>. She just wasn’t that big, you know? And they were really whaling on her, and she just <i>took</i> it. Like it was the most natural thing in the world. Or like⁠—you know⁠—almost like she <i>got off</i> on it, or something.</p>
			<p>Anyway, she wraps her arms around this big beefy antibody and she just <i>pushes</i>, and they go right over the edge, and the sterilites go on when they hit the water⁠—kind of wild those things still work, pier hasn’t seen any boat traffic in <i>years</i>⁠—and the water lights up all cool and radium-glow and there’s some splashing and then there’s this big <i>whoomf</i> and it’s like this huge bubble of blood and guts just sort of boils up to the surface and the water’s like <i>completely</i> gone to rust.</p>
			<p>She’s like some kinda amphibian, one of those rifter cyborgs. We met up with her after, she came back to pick up her fins when things had cooled down. Don’t ask me what she was doing here in the middle of the night. Didn’t talk much and we didn’t push. We set her up with some snacks and supplies⁠—she’d been eating from cyclers on the <i>Strip</i>, if you can believe it. Although it didn’t seem to’ve dulled her edge any. Gave her my watch. She hadn’t even heard about the curfew. I had to show her how to get around the timelock. Guess you lose touch with things when you spend all your time on the bottom of the ocean. Not that it held her back any. You should’ve <i>seen</i> that asshole. They fished him out of the water like an old rag. I would’ve <i>paid</i> to see his face, you know?</p>
			<p>I tried to look her up but <b>Lenie Clarke</b> isn’t exactly sockeye on the registry. Got more hits than holocausts. She did mention her home town, I think, but I couldn’t find that either. Any of you guys ever hear of a place called <b>Beebe</b>?</p>
			<p>Anyhow, far as I know she’s still at large. <i>Les beus</i> are probably looking for her, but I bet fifty QueBucks they don’t even know what she <i>looks</i> like under all that gear, never mind who she <i>is</i>. I mean, they hardly ever catch <i>us</i>, and they know everything there is to know about us. Well, not everything. Right, m</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>EXCERPT <abbr epub:type="se:compass">E.N.</abbr>DS</p>
				<p>CALL Behemoth</p>
				<p>Lenie Clarke/Beebe CONFIRMED.</p>
				<p>ADD <abbr epub:type="se:compass">S.E.</abbr>ARCH TERMS: amphibian/s, rifter/s, cyborg/s</p>
				<p>OVERLAY TEMPLATE. RESEQUENCE TEXT.</p>
				<p>COPY. TRANSLOCATE.</p>
				<p>SPREAD THE WORD.</p>
			</blockquote>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
