<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-CA">
	<head>
		<title>Deathbed</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-1-3" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Deathbed</h3>
			<p>He’d made it a point not to track the time. You learned tricks like that, in Lubin’s line of work. You learned to focus on the moment and deny the future. He’d tried to work it backward, too, reverse time’s arrow and erase the past, but that hadn’t been as easy.</p>
			<p>It didn’t matter. After a year’s blind night⁠—the earth cracking open beneath him, the relentless Pacific pushing down like a hydraulic press⁠—he wept with gratitude at the half-remembered feel of dry land. This was <i>grass</i>. Those were <i>birds</i>. Oh dear God, that was <i>sunlight</i>. It was a scabby little rock lost somewhere in the Pacific, all lichens and dry scrub and shit-hawks, and he’d never been anywhere so beautiful.</p>
			<p>He couldn’t think of a better place to die.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>He awoke under a clear blue sky, a thousand meters beneath the ocean’s surface.</p>
			<p>Fifty klicks from Beebe Station, maybe fifty-five from ground zero. Too far for the blast light to penetrate. He didn’t know what he was seeing in that instant: Cherenkov radiation, perhaps. Some obscure effect of pressure waves on the optic nerve. A vision of afterlight, bathing the abyss in a deep and piercing blue.</p>
			<p>And while he hung there like a speck suspended in gelatin, a little shockwave rumbled up from below.</p>
			<p>An ancient, arboreal part of Lubin’s brain gibbered in panic. A more recent module gagged it and began calculating: fast P-wave propagation through bedrock. Perpendicular ancillary waves rising off the bottom: the tremor he’d just felt. Two short sides of a right-angle triangle.</p>
			<p>And afterward, clawing through a sluggish medium so much lighter than the seabed: the hypotenuse, the slower main shockwave.</p>
			<p>Slower, but vastly more powerful.</p>
			<p>Pythagoras said twenty seconds.</p>
			<p>He was immune to absolute pressure: every sinus, every cavity, every pocket of internal gas had long-since been purged by the machinery in his thorax. He’d spent a year on the bottom of the ocean and barely felt it. He was solid flesh and bone, a viscous organic liquid, as incompressible as seawater itself.</p>
			<p>The shockwave hit. Seawater compressed.</p>
			<p>It looked like staring into naked sunlight: that was the pressure crushing his eyes. It sounded like the Tunguska Blast: that was the sound of his eardrums imploding. It felt like being ground between the Rocky Mountains: his body, squeezed briefly down to some flatter dimension as the front passed, then rebounding like a rubber ball yanked from a vise.</p>
			<p>He remembered very little of what happened next. But that cold blue light⁠—it had faded, hadn’t it? After just a few seconds. By the time the shockwave had hit, all had been darkness again.</p>
			<p>And yet here it was, still. Blue light, everywhere.</p>
			<p><i>The sky</i>, he realized at last. <i>It’s the sky. You’re onshore.</i></p>
			<p>A gull flew across his field of view, open-beaked. Lubin thought his ruined ears might have heard a faint, tinny bird-scream, but maybe that was his imagination. He heard very little these days, beyond a distant ringing that seemed to come from the other side of the world.</p>
			<p><i>The sky</i>.</p>
			<p>Somehow, he must have made it.</p>
			<p>He remembered hanging in the water like a torn mass of seaweed, unable to scream, unable to move <i>without</i> screaming. His body must have been instantly transformed into one continuous bruise. Under all that pain, though, nothing felt broken. Midwater, after all⁠—nothing for his bones to break <i>against</i>, just a vast all-encompassing wave that simultaneously compressed and released everything with equable disregard⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p>At some point he must have started moving again. He remembered fragments: the feel of his legs cramping, pushing against the water. Periodic glimpses of his nav array, the compass leading him west, southwest. The gradual resolution of his global pain into more distinct, local varieties⁠—he’d even played a little game, trying to guess the cause of each torment as it cried out from the crowd. <i>That cold nausea⁠—that must be seawater leaking into the auditory canal⁠ ⁠… and down there in the gut, well that’s hunger, of course. And my chest, let me think, my chest⁠—oh right, the implants. Meat and metal don’t squeeze down the same way, the implants must’ve pushed back when the blast flattened me⁠ ⁠…</i></p>
			<p>And now he was here, on an island barely a hundred meters long: he’d crawled ashore at one end and seen a lighthouse at the other, a lichenous concrete pillar that must have been decaying since the previous century. He’d seen no other sign of humanity in the time it had taken him to collapse unconscious onto the sandstone.</p>
			<p>But he’d made it. Ken Lubin was alive.</p>
			<p>He slipped, then. He allowed himself to wonder if the others had made it, to <i>hope</i> they’d made it, even. He knew they hadn’t. They’d had a head start, but they’d been hugging the bottom to avoid detection. The seabed would have intensified the shockwave, thrown chunks of itself into the water like a crazed incompetent juggler; anything within ten meters of the bottom would have been pulverized. Lubin had realized that, belatedly, as he’d set out to catch up with the others. He’d weighed the risk of exposure, the risk of detonation, and had⁠—so to speak⁠—risen to the occasion. Even so, he was lucky to be alive.</p>
			<p>Lenie Clarke hadn’t been with the others. If anything, though, she was even deader than they were. She hadn’t even <i>tried</i> to run, Lubin had left her waiting back at Ground Zero: a woman who wanted to die. A woman about to get her wish.</p>
			<p>
				<i>At least she was good for something. At least she could act as your own personal confessional before she vaporized. For the first time in your life you got to use someone as a rag to wipe off your dirty conscience, and you didn’t even have to kill her afterward.</i>
			</p>
			<p>He didn’t deny it, even to himself. There would have been no point. Besides, he’d hardly benefited from his actions. He was just as dead as the others. He had to be.</p>
			<p>It was the only thing that made any sense.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>The puzzle consisted of several large pieces in primary colors. They only fit together one way.</p>
			<p>People had been conscripted, built, and trained. Flesh and organs had been scooped out and discarded, the cavities stuffed with machinery and sown up. The resulting creatures were able to live in an abyss three thousand meters down, on the southern tip of the Juan de Fuca Ridge. There they had tended larger machines, stealing power from deep within the earth in the name of supply and demand.</p>
			<p>There were not many reasons why anyone would wish to launch a nuclear attack against such a facility.</p>
			<p>At first glance it might have been an act of war. But N’AmPac had built both the facility and the rifters. N’AmPac had been drinking ravenously from Juan de Fuca’s geothermal well. And it had been N’AmPac, judging by the evidence, that had planted the seabed nukes that had destroyed it all.</p>
			<p>Not war, then. At least, not of the political sort.</p>
			<p>Corporate security, perhaps. Perhaps the rifters knew something best kept secret. Ken Lubin very nearly qualified as such a hazard. But Ken Lubin was a valuable commodity, and it would have been bad economics to discard something that merely needed a tune-up. That was why they’d sent him to the bottom of the ocean in the first place, on sabbatical from a world he’d begun to threaten more than serve. (<i>Just a temporary assignment</i>, they’d said, <i>until your⁠—instincts stabilize a bit.</i>) A world of fish and ice-cold humans with no interests beyond their own tormented inertia, no industrial secrets to steal or protect, no security breaches to seal with extreme prejudice⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p>No. Ken Lubin was the closest the team had come to any sort of intel threat, and if his bosses had wanted him dead, they wouldn’t have bothered sending him to Channer Vent in the first place. Besides, there were far more efficient ways of killing five people than vaporizing several square kilometers of seabed.</p>
			<p>It was inexorable: the seabed <i>itself</i> had been the target. Channer Vent posed a threat, somehow, and had to be wiped off the map. And the rifters had become a part of that threat, or the GA would have evacuated them beforehand; corporations were ruthless but they were never gratuitous. You don’t throw away any investment unless you have to.</p>
			<p>So some threat at Channer had spread, on contact, to the rifters themselves. Lubin wasn’t a biologist, but he knew about contagion. Everyone did. And hydrothermal vents were literal hotbeds of microbiology. The pharms were finding new bugs down there all the time. Some thrived in boiling sulfuric acid. Some lived in solid rock, kilometers deep in the crust. Some ate oils and plastics, even before they’d been tweaked. Others, Lubin had heard, could cure diseases people didn’t even have names for yet.</p>
			<p>Extremophiles, they were called. Very old, very simple, almost <i>alien</i>. The closest thing anyone had found to the original Martian Mike. Could anything that evolved under three hundred lightless atmospheres, that was comfortable at 100°C⁠—or even the 4° more universal in the abyss⁠—could something like that even <i>survive</i> in a human body?</p>
			<p>And what would it do in there?</p>
			<p>Ken Lubin didn’t know. But someone had just wiped out billions of dollars’ worth of equipment and training. Someone had sacrificed a major energy teat in a world already starved for power. And in all likelihood, the same blast which had vaporized Channer had gone on to wreak havoc on the coast; Lubin couldn’t begin to guess at the earthquake and tsunami damage that might have resulted.</p>
			<p>All to keep something <i>on</i> Channer from getting <i>off</i>.</p>
			<p>
				<i>What is it? What does it do?</i>
			</p>
			<p>It seemed a fair bet he was going to find out.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
