<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Heat Death</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-2" id="chapter-2-8" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Heat Death</h3>
			<p>It was an impoverished display, sparse informatics against a dark background: lats and longs, a tiny GPS overlay centered on <i>Calgary International Airport</i>, a <i>no-visual</i> icon blinking the obvious at two-second intervals.</p>
			<p>“How do you know?” breathed a disembodied voice in Perreault’s ear.</p>
			<p>“I saw it. The start of it, anyway.” Hard-edged airport ambience echoed in the background. “I’m sorry.”</p>
			<p>“It was his own fault,” Clarke said after a moment. “He made too much noise. He was just⁠—asking for it⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>“I don’t think that was it,” Perreault said. “They slagged eight whole kilometers.”</p>
			<p>“<i>What?</i>”</p>
			<p>“Some kind of biohazard, I think. Amitav just got⁠—caught in the sweep⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>“No.” Words so soft they were almost static. “Can’t be.”</p>
			<p>“I’m sorry.”</p>
			<p>
				<i>No visual. No visual.</i>
			</p>
			<p>“Who are you?” Clarke asked at last.</p>
			<p>“I ride botflies,” Perreault said. “Mop-ups, mainly. I saw you when you came out of the ocean. I saw how you affected the people on the Strip, I saw you when you had one of those⁠—visions⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Aren’t you the faithful little stalker,” Clarke said.</p>
			<p>“That wasn’t me,” she continued after a while. “Back on the Strip. That was Amitav.”</p>
			<p>“He ran with it. You were the insp⁠—”</p>
			<p>“<i>It wasn’t me</i>.”</p>
			<p>“Okay. Fine.”</p>
			<p>
				<i>No visual.</i>
			</p>
			<p>“Why are you following me?” Clarke said.</p>
			<p>“Someone’s⁠—linked us up. And at the bus station, earlier.”</p>
			<p>“Who?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know. Probably one of your friends.”</p>
			<p>Something between a cough and a laugh. “I don’t think so.”</p>
			<p>Perreault took a breath. “You’re⁠—getting known, you know. People are noticing. Some of them must be protecting you.”</p>
			<p>“From <i>what</i>, exactly?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know. Maybe from the people who started the quake.”</p>
			<p>“What do you know about that?” Clarke’s voice almost <i>pounced</i> down the link.</p>
			<p>“Millions died,” Perreault said. “You know why. That makes you dangerous to all the wrong people.”</p>
			<p>“Is that what you think.”</p>
			<p>“It’s one of the rumors. I don’t know.”</p>
			<p>“Don’t know much, do you?”</p>
			<p>“I⁠—”</p>
			<p>“You don’t know who I am. You don’t know what I want or what I’ve d⁠—you don’t know who they are or what <i>they</i> want. You just sit there and let them <i>use</i> you.”</p>
			<p>“What do you want?”</p>
			<p>“None of your fucking business.”</p>
			<p>Perreault shook her head. “I’m just trying to help, you know.”</p>
			<p>“Lady, I don’t know if you even <i>exist</i>. For all I know that kid in South Bend is playing some kind of sick joke.”</p>
			<p>“<i>Something</i>’s happening because of you. Something real. You can check the threads yourself if you don’t believe me. You’re some kind of catalyst. Whether you know it or not.”</p>
			<p>“And here you are, jumping in with no questions asked.”</p>
			<p>“I’ve got questions.”</p>
			<p>“No answers, then. I could be planting bombs. I could be spit-roasting babies. You don’t know, but here you are with your tongue hanging out anyway.”</p>
			<p>“<i>Listen</i>,” Perreault snapped, “whatever you’re doing, it⁠—”</p>
			<p>—<i>Can’t be any worse than the way things are already⁠ ⁠…</i></p>
			<p>She stopped, astonished at the thought, grateful that she’d kept it back. She felt an absurd certainly that seven hundred kilometers away, Lenie Clarke was smiling.</p>
			<p>She tried again. “Look, I may not know what’s going on but I know <i>something</i> is, and it revolves around you. And I bet that not everyone who knows that is on your side. Maybe you think I’m a head case. Fine. But even <i>I</i> wouldn’t risk going through airport security with the kind of profile your implants put out. I’d get out <i>now</i>, and I’d forget about flying anywhere for the foreseeable future. There are other ways to get around.”</p>
			<p>She waited. Tactical constellations glimmered about her.</p>
			<p>“Okay,” Clarke said at last. “Thanks for the tip. Here’s one for you. Stop trying to help me. Help whoever’s trying to stamp me out, if you can find them.”</p>
			<p>“For God’s sake, <i>why</i>?”</p>
			<p>“For your own sake, Suzie. For everyone you ever cared about. Amitav was⁠—he didn’t deserve what happened to him.”</p>
			<p>“No, of course he didn’t.”</p>
			<p>“Eight kilometers, you said?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. Burned to bedrock.”</p>
			<p>“I think that was just the beginning,” Clarke said. “Off.”</p>
			<p>Around Sou-<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Hon.</abbr> Perreault, the stars went out.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
