<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Ghost</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter">
		<section id="chapter-1-27" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Ghost</h2>
			<p>The body hadn’t bothered Tracy Edison at all. That hadn’t been mom, it hadn’t even looked like a person. It was just a bunch of smashed meat all covered up by plaster and cement. The eye that had stared so rudely from across the room was the right color, but it wasn’t <i>really</i> her mom’s eye. Mom’s eyes were <i>inside</i> her head.</p>
			<p>And anyway, there’d been no time to even check. Dad had grabbed her right up and put her in the car (in the <i>front</i> seat, even) and they’d just driven right away without stopping. Tracy had looked back and the house hadn’t looked that bad from the outside, really, except for that one wall and the bit behind the garden. But then they’d gone around the corner and the house was gone, too.</p>
			<p>Nothing stopped after that. Dad wouldn’t even stop to pick up food⁠—there was food where they were going, he said, and they had to get there fast “before the wall came down”. He was always talking like that, about how <i>they</i> were <i>carving the world up into little cookie-cutter shapes</i>, and how all those <i>exotic weeds and bugs</i> were giving them the excuse they needed to <i>rope everybody off into little enclaves</i>. Mom had always said it was amazing how he kept coming up with all those <i>full-blown conspiracy theories</i>, but Tracy got the feeling that recent events kind of came down on Dad’s side. She wasn’t sure, though. It was all really confusing.</p>
			<p>It had taken a long time to get up into the mountains. Lots of the roads were cracked and twisted so you couldn’t drive on them, and other ones were already jammed with cars and buses and trucks; there were so many that Tracy didn’t even see anyone glaring at <i>their</i> car, the way people usually did because <i>well, honey, people don’t know that I work way out in the woods, so when they see we have our own car they think we’re just being wasteful and selfish.</i> Dad took lots of back roads and before she knew it they were way off in the mountains, just old clear-cuts as far as you could see, all green and fuzzing up with carbon-eating kudzu. And Dad <i>still</i> hadn’t stopped, except a few times to let Tracy out to pee and one time when he drove under some trees until a bunch of helicopters had gone by.</p>
			<p>They hadn’t stopped until they got here, to this little cabin in the woods by a lake⁠—a <i>glacial</i> lake, Dad said. He said there were lots of these cabins, strung out along valley floors all through the mountains. A long time ago Park Rangers would ride around on horseback, making sure everything was okay and staying at a different cabin each night. Now, of course, regular people weren’t allowed to go into the woods, so there was no need for rangers any more. But they still kept some cabins ready for visitors, for biologists who came into the woods to study the trees and things.</p>
			<p>“So we’re here on a kind of holiday,” her dad said. “We’ll just play it by ear, and we’ll go hiking every day, and just explore and play until things settle down a bit back home.”</p>
			<p>“When will Mommy be here?” Tracy asked.</p>
			<p>Her dad looked down at the brown pine needles all over the ground. “Mommy’s gone, Lima-Bean,” he said after a bit. “It’s just us for a while.”</p>
			<p>“Okay,” said Tracy.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>She learned how to chop wood and start fires, both outside in the firepit and in the cabin’s big black stove; it must have been over a <i>hundred years old</i>. She loved the smell of wood smoke, although she hated it when the wind changed and it got in her eyes. They went hiking in the woods almost every day, and they watched the stars come out at night. Tracy’s dad thought the stars were something really special⁠—“never get a view like <i>this</i> in the city, eh, Lima-bean?”⁠—but the planetarium in Tracy’s watch was actually nicer, even if you did have to wear eyephones to see it. Still, Tracy didn’t complain; she could tell it was really important to Dad that she liked this whole <i>holiday</i> thing. So she smiled and nodded. Dad would be happy for a while.</p>
			<p>At night, though, when they doubled up on the cot, he would hold her and hold her and not let go. Sometimes he hugged so tight it almost hurt; other times he’d just curl around her from behind, not moving at all, not squeezing but all tensed up.</p>
			<p>Once Tracy woke up in the middle of the night and her dad was crying. He was wrapped around her and he didn’t make a sound; but every now and then he would <i>shudder</i> a little bit, and tears would splash onto Tracy’s neck. Tracy kept absolutely still, so her dad wouldn’t know she was awake.</p>
			<p>The next morning she asked him⁠—as she still did, sometimes⁠—when Mom would be coming. Her dad told her it was time to sweep the cabin.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Her mom never did show up. Someone else did, though.</p>
			<p>They were cleaning up after supper. They’d spent all day hiking to the glacier at the far end of the lake, and Tracy was looking forward to going to bed. But there was no dishwasher in the cabin, so they had to clean all their dishes in the sink. Tracy was drying, looking out into the windy blackness on the other side of the window. If she looked really hard through the glass she could see a jagged little corner of dark gray sky, all hemmed in by black tree shapes jostling in the wind. Mostly, though, she just saw her own reflection looking back at her from the darkness, and the brightly lit inside of the cabin reflecting behind.</p>
			<p>But then she looked down to wipe a plate, and her reflection didn’t do the same thing.</p>
			<p>She looked back up out the window. Her reflection looked wrong. Blurry, like there were two of them. And its eyes were wrong, too.</p>
			<p><i>It’s not me</i>, Tracy thought, and felt a shudder run over her whole body.</p>
			<p>There was <i>something else</i> out there, a ghost face, looking in⁠—and when Tracy felt her eyes go wide and her mouth open <i>ohhh</i> that other face just kept looking back from the wind and the dark with no expression at all.</p>
			<p>“<i>Daddy</i>,” she tried to say, but it came out a whisper.</p>
			<p>At first Dad just looked at her. Then he looked at the window, and his mouth opened and his eyes went a little wide, too. But only for a moment. Then he was going to the door.</p>
			<p>On the other side of the window, the floating ghost face turned to follow him.</p>
			<p>“Daddy,” Tracy said, and her voice sounded very small. “Please don’t let it in.”</p>
			<p>“<i>She</i>, Lima bean. Not <i>it</i>,” her dad said. “And don’t be silly. It’s freezing out there.”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>It wasn’t a ghost after all. It was a woman with short blond hair, just like Tracy’s. She came through the door without a word; the wind outside tried to follow her in, but Tracy’s dad shut it out.</p>
			<p>Her eyes were white and empty. They reminded Tracy of the glacier at the end of the lake.</p>
			<p>“Hi,” Tracy’s dad said. “Welcome to our, uh, home away from home.”</p>
			<p>“Thanks.” The woman blinked over those scary white eyes. They must be contact lenses, Tracy decided. Like those ConTacs people wore sometimes. She’d never seen any so white.</p>
			<p>“Well, of course it’s not <i>our</i> home exactly, we’re just here for a while, you know⁠—are you with MNR?”</p>
			<p>The woman tilted her head a bit, asking a question without opening her mouth. Except for the eyes, she looked like any other hiker Tracy had seen. Gore-Tex and backpack and all that stuff.</p>
			<p>“Ministry of Natural Resources,” Tracy’s dad explained.</p>
			<p>“No,” the woman said.</p>
			<p>“Well, I guess we’re all trespassing together then, eh?”</p>
			<p>The woman looked down at Tracy and smiled. “Hi there.”</p>
			<p>Tracy took a step back and bumped into her dad. Dad put his hands on her shoulders and squeezed as if to say <i>it’s okay</i>.</p>
			<p>The woman looked back up at Tracy’s dad. Her smile was gone.</p>
			<p>“I didn’t mean to crash your party,” the woman told him.</p>
			<p>“Don’t be silly. Actually, we’ve been here for a few weeks now. Hiking around. Exploring. Got out just before they sealed the border. I used to be a⁠—that is, the Big One didn’t leave much behind, eh? Everything’s in such a jumble. But I knew about this place, did some contract work here once. So we’re riding it out. Until things settle down.”</p>
			<p>The woman nodded.</p>
			<p>“I’m Gord,” said Tracy’s dad. “And this is Tracy.”</p>
			<p>“Hello, Tracy,” the woman said. She smiled again. “I guess I must look pretty strange to you, right?”</p>
			<p>“It’s okay,” Tracy said. Her dad gave her another squeeze.</p>
			<p>The woman’s smile flickered a bit.</p>
			<p>“Anyway,” Dad said, “as I was saying, I’m Gord, and this is Tracy.”</p>
			<p>At first Tracy thought the strange woman wasn’t going to answer. “Lenie,” she said at last.</p>
			<p>“Pleased to meet you, Lenie. What brings you way up here?”</p>
			<p>“Just hiking through,” she said. “To Jasper.”</p>
			<p>“Got family there? Friends?”</p>
			<p><i>Lenie</i> didn’t even answer. “Tracy,” she said instead, “where’s your mom?”</p>
			<p>“She’s⁠—” Tracy began, and couldn’t finish.</p>
			<p>It was like something clamped down in her throat. <i>Where’s your mom?</i> She didn’t know. She <i>did</i> know. But Dad wouldn’t talk about it⁠—</p>
			<p>
				<i>Mommy’s gone, Lima bean. It’s just us for a while.</i>
			</p>
			<p>How long was a while?</p>
			<p>
				<i>Mommy’s gone.</i>
			</p>
			<p>Suddenly, Dad’s fingers were gripping her shoulders so hard it hurt.</p>
			<p>
				<i>Mommy’s⁠—</i>
			</p>
			<p>“The quake,” her dad said, and his voice was tight the way it got when he was really mad.</p>
			<p>—<i>gone</i>.</p>
			<p>“I’m sorry,” said the strange woman. “I didn’t know.”</p>
			<p>“Yeah, well maybe next time just <i>think</i> a bit before⁠—”</p>
			<p>“You’re right. It was thoughtless. I’m sorry.”</p>
			<p>“Yeah.” Dad didn’t sound convinced.</p>
			<p>“I⁠—it was the same for me,” Lenie said. “Family.”</p>
			<p>“I’m sorry,” Tracy’s dad said, and suddenly he didn’t sound angry at all any more. He must have thought that Lenie was talking about the quake.</p>
			<p>Somehow, Tracy knew that wasn’t true.</p>
			<p>“Look,” her dad was saying, “You’re welcome to rest up here for a day or two if you want. Plenty of food. There’s two beds. Tracy and I can double up.”</p>
			<p>“That’s okay,” Lenie said. “I’ll sleep on the floor.”</p>
			<p>“It’s no problem, really. We double up sometimes anyway, don’t we, Bean?”</p>
			<p>“Do you.” Lenie’s voice was strange and flat. “I see.”</p>
			<p>“And we⁠—we’ve all been through so much, you know. We’ve all⁠—lost so much. We should help each other out when we get the chance, don’t you think?”</p>
			<p>“Oh yes,” Lenie said, and she was looking right at Tracy. “Definitely.”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>After breakfast the next morning Tracy went down by the water. There was a little shelf of rock that stuck out over a steep drop-off; Tracy could lean over the edge and see her own dark reflection staring back up at her. The clear, gray-blue water faded darkly behind. Sometimes Tracy would drop little rocks into the water and follow them down, but the darkness always swallowed them before they hit bottom.</p>
			<p>Suddenly, just like the night before, there was another reflection looking back at her.</p>
			<p>“It’s beautiful down there,” Lenie said at her shoulder. “Peaceful.”</p>
			<p>“It’s deep,” Tracy said.</p>
			<p>“Not deep enough.”</p>
			<p>Tracy squirmed around on the rock and looked up at the strange lady. She’d taken off her white contacts; her eyes were a pale, pale blue.</p>
			<p>“I haven’t seen any fish down there yet,” Tracy said.</p>
			<p>Lenie sat down beside her, cross-legged. “It’s glacial.”</p>
			<p>“I know,” Tracy said proudly. She pointed at the icy ridge on the far side of the lake. “That covered half the world, a long time ago.”</p>
			<p>Lenie smiled a little. “Did it, now?”</p>
			<p>“<i>Ten thousand years</i> ago,” Tracy said. “And even just a <i>hundred</i> years ago it came almost to where we are now, and it was twenty meters high, and people would come and ride on it with snowmobiles and things.”</p>
			<p>“Did your dad tell you that?”</p>
			<p>Tracy nodded. “My Dad’s a <i>forest ecologist</i>.” She pointed to a clump of trees a little ways away. “Those are <i>Douglas fir</i>. There’s lots of them around now because they can survive fires and droughts and bugs. The other trees aren’t doing so well, though.” She looked back down into the cold clear water. “I haven’t seen any fish yet.”</p>
			<p>“Did your⁠—dad say there were fish in there?” Lenie asked.</p>
			<p>“He told me to keep looking. He said maybe I’d get lucky.”</p>
			<p>Lenie said something that ended in <i>igures</i>.</p>
			<p>Tracy looked back at her. “What?”</p>
			<p>“Nothing, sweetie.” Lenie reached out and ruffled Tracy’s hair. “Just⁠—well, maybe you shouldn’t believe everything your daddy tells you.”</p>
			<p>“Why not?”</p>
			<p>“Sometimes people don’t always tell the truth.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, I know <i>that</i>. But he’s my <i>dad</i>.”</p>
			<p>Lenie sighed, but then her face got a little brighter. “Did you know there are places where the fish glow like lightsticks?”</p>
			<p>“Are <i>not</i>.”</p>
			<p>“Are too. Way down at the very bottom of the ocean. I’ve seen them myself.”</p>
			<p>“You have?”</p>
			<p>“And some of them have teeth that are <i>so big</i>⁠—” Lenie held her hands apart, almost wide enough for Tracy’s shoulders to fit⁠—“they can’t even close their mouths all the way.”</p>
			<p>“<i>Now</i> who’s lying?” Tracy asked.</p>
			<p>Lenie put a hand on her heart. “I swear.”</p>
			<p>“You mean like sharks?”</p>
			<p>“No. Different.”</p>
			<p>“Wow.” Lenie was very strange, but she was nice. “Dad says there aren’t very many fish left.”</p>
			<p>“Well, these are way down deep.”</p>
			<p>“Wow,” Tracy said again. She flipped back onto her stomach and stared down into the water. “Maybe there’s fish like that down there.”</p>
			<p>“No.”</p>
			<p>“It’s really deep. You can’t see bottom.”</p>
			<p>“Believe me, Trace. It’s just a lot of gravel and old punky driftwood and insect casings.”</p>
			<p>“Yah, well how would <i>you</i> know?”</p>
			<p>“Actually⁠—” Lenie began.</p>
			<p>“<i>Dad</i> said to keep looking.”</p>
			<p>“I bet your dad says lots of things,” Lenie said in a strange voice. “Isn’t that right?”</p>
			<p>Tracy looked back at her. Lenie wasn’t smiling any more. She looked very serious.</p>
			<p>“I bet he <i>touches</i> you sometimes, doesn’t he?” Lenie was almost whispering. “When the two of you <i>double up</i>, at night.”</p>
			<p>“Well, sure,” said Tracy. “Sometimes.”</p>
			<p>“And he probably said it was okay, right?”</p>
			<p>Tracy was confused. “He never <i>talks</i> about it. He just <i>does</i> it.”</p>
			<p>“And it’s your little secret, right? You don’t⁠—you didn’t talk about it with your mom.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t⁠—” <i>Mom⁠—</i> “He doesn’t want me talking about⁠—” She couldn’t finish.</p>
			<p>“That’s okay,” Lenie smiled, and it was sad and friendly smile all at once. “You’re a good kid, you know that, Tracy? You’re a really good kid.”</p>
			<p>“She’s the best,” Tracy’s dad said, and Lenie’s face went as blank as a mask.</p>
			<p>He had filled up his big daypack and Tracy’s little one. Tracy scrambled up and got hers. Her dad was looking at Lenie, and he seemed a little bit puzzled, but then he said, “We’re going to check out an old animal trail back around the ridge. Maybe see us a deer or a badger. Few hours, anyway. You’re welcome to join us if you⁠—”</p>
			<p>Lenie shook her head stiffly. “Thanks, no. I think I’ll just⁠—”</p>
			<p>And then she stopped, and looked at Tracy, and looked back at Tracy’s dad.</p>
			<p>“Yeah, okay,” she said. “Maybe I should, at that.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
