<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-CA">
	<head>
		<title>Decoys</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-2" id="chapter-2-21" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Decoys</h3>
			<p>The way Aviva Lu saw it, whoever died last was the winner.</p>
			<p>It didn’t matter what you actually <i>did</i> with your life. Da Vinci and Plasmid and Ian Anderson had all done mags more than Vive or any of her friends ever would. She’d never explore Mars or write a symphony or even build an animal, at least not from scratch. But the thing was, all those people were <i>dead</i> already. Fame hadn’t kept Olivia M’Benga’s faceplate from shattering. Andrew Simon’s charge against Hydro-Q hadn’t added one rotting day to his lifespan. <i>Passion Play</i> might have been immortal, but its composer had been dust for decades.</p>
			<p>Aviva Lu knew more about <i>the story so far</i> than all of those guys had.</p>
			<p>It was all just one big, sprawling interactive storybook. It had a beginning and a middle and an end. If you came in halfway through, you could always pick up the stuff you’d missed⁠—that’s what tutorials and encyclopedias and Maelstrom itself were for. You could get a thumbnail History of Life right back to the time Martian Mike dropped out of the sky and started the whole thing off. Once you were dead, though, that was <i>it</i>. You’d never know what came next. The real winners, Vive figured, were the ones who saw how the story finally ended.</p>
			<p>That said, it kind of pissed her off to realize that she’d probably made it to the finals.</p>
			<p>That much had been obvious even before this <i>firewitch</i> thing had started burning its way across the continent. There’d been a time, she’d heard, you could just pick up and <i>go</i> places; none of these whackamole barriers going up and down all the time, like you had to shoot some kind of lottery every time you wanted to cross the street. There’d been a time when you could fight off plagues and parasites <i>yourself</i>, just using your own body systems, without having to buy a fix from some pharm who’d probably tweaked the disease in the first place so you had to buy their crummy genes. According to Vive’s pater, there’d even been a time when the police themselves had been under control.</p>
			<p>Of course, parents weren’t exactly paragons of reliability. That whole generation was too busy shooting itself up with crocodilian and plant organelles to worry about getting their facts right. Not that Vive had any objections to good health⁠—she’d been taking croc supplements herself for years. She even took proglottids and <i>Ascaris</i> eggs every now and then⁠—she hated the idea of all those worms hatching out in her gut, but these days your immune system needed every workout it could get.</p>
			<p>And besides, that was a <i>long</i> way from polluting your genotype with lizard DNA, even if Pfizer did have a discount this month and <i>wouldn’t it be great to not be so dependent on outside drugs all the time, sweetie?</i></p>
			<p>Sometimes Vive wondered if her parents even really knew what a species <i>was</i> any more. In fact, that was the whole problem: rather than clean the shit out of the world, people just turned themselves into coprovores. In a couple of years the human race was going to be half cockroach. If everything hadn’t already melted down by then.</p>
			<p>Meltdown, actually, was preferable. Better to tear everything down and just start over. Put everyone on the same footing for a change.</p>
			<p>That’s why Aviva Lu was here now, waiting for Lenie Clarke to show up.</p>
			<p>Lenie Clarke was the Meltdown Madonna.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Actually, Aviva Lu wasn’t exactly sure <i>what</i> Lenie Clarke was. She seemed to be an army of one. She had died, and risen again. She’d kick-started the Big One out of sheer impatience, tired of waiting for some long-overdue apocalypse that had always threatened and never delivered. She’d single-handedly broken open the Strip, led a refugee revolt whose existence N’AmPac <i>still</i> wouldn’t admit to. Fire followed in her wake; anyone who opposed her was ash inside a week.</p>
			<p>What Lenie Clarke really was, Vive had always figured, was bullshit.</p>
			<p>There were a lot of people who thought otherwise, of course. People who swore up and down that Lenie Clarke was a real person, not just some marketing icon trying to electroshock <i>rifter chic</i> back off the slab. They said that the Meltdown Madonna actually <i>was</i> a rifter, one of N’AmPac’s trained deep-seals⁠—but that something had happened on the bottom of the ocean, something mythic. The Big One had only been a symptom, they said, of what had changed her. Now Lenie Clarke was a sorceress, able to transmute organic matter into lead or something. Now she wandered the world spreading apocalypse in her wake, and the masters she’d once served would stop at nothing to bring her down.</p>
			<p>It made a good story⁠—hey, any apocalypse that threatened the corpses was long overdue as far as Vive was concerned⁠—but she’d heard too many others. Lenie Clarke was the Next Big Sensorium Personality. Lenie Clarke was a quantum AI, built in defiance of the Carnegie Protocols. Lenie Clarke was an invention of the corpses themselves, a bogeyman to scare restless civilians into obedience. For a couple of days Lenie Clarke had even been some kind of escaped microbe from Lake Vostok.</p>
			<p>These days the stories were a lot more consistent; Lenie Clarke hadn’t been anything but the Meltdown Madonna for weeks now, as far as Vive could tell. Probably the test marketers had settled on the line that would sell the most <i>faux</i> diveskins, or something. And why not? The look was in, the eyes were killer, and Vive was a much a fashion hound as anyone.</p>
			<p>At least, that was what she’d thought until all of bloody Maelstrom started talking in one voice.</p>
			<p>Now <i>that</i> had been wild. Half of Maelstrom might have been wildlife, but the other half was spam filters; there was just no <i>way</i> that anyone could have pulled that off, even the corpses. But she’d seen it herself, on her own (only slightly illegal) wristwatch: everyone she knew had seen it on theirs, or heard it from some matchmaker, or even seen it printed across personal visors that <i>should</i> have been hawking drugs or Levi’s: <i>Lenie Clarke is closing on Yankton. Lenie Clarke is in trouble. Lenie Clarke needs your help.</i></p>
			<p>
				<i>Now. Cedar and West Second.</i>
			</p>
			<p>Whatever Lenie Clarke was, she had <i>very</i> powerful friends to pull off something like that. All of a sudden Vive found herself taking rifter chic very seriously indeed. Lindsey’d said they were all being used⁠—someone with <i>really</i> long arms must be building a bandwagon as cover for something else, Carnegie knew <i>what</i> exactly⁠—and Lindsey was probably right. So what? They were decoys for something, but that something was headed <i>here</i>, and whatever it was, Vive was going to be part of it.</p>
			<p>It was gonna be a great ride.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p><i>Les beus</i> knew it, too.</p>
			<p>There were two kinds of uniforms swarming across the concourse: police and rifters. <i>Les beus</i> bristled with shockprods and botflies and armored exoskels. The rifters had their fake diveskins and their cheap white contacts. Everything else, Vive knew, was bravado. Maelstrom had called out, and they’d come on faith and adrenaline. By now it was pretty obvious that faith wasn’t all that necessary; the enforcer presence was more than enough evidence that <i>something</i> big was in town.</p>
			<p>So far, nothing had exploded. Both sides were still jockeying for position, maybe pretending⁠—to those scattered pedestrians who still hadn’t grabbed the bone and vanished⁠—that there was really nothing to worry about. The police had cordoned off whole sections of the concourse, not herding yet but well into corral mode. For their part, the rifters were testing the perimeter; milling along halls and slidewalks, dodging back and forth across the exoskel lines, always stopping just short of anything the antibodies could cite afterward as <i>provocation</i>. Botflies swarmed overhead like big black eggs, taking pre-game footage of everything.</p>
			<p>Both sides were behaving really well, all things considered. Which made sense, kind of, since neither side was mainly there for the other. Vive figured things would heat up pretty quick once the star attraction showed up.</p>
			<p>Her watch beeped. That was a surprise: the opposition always jammed the local frequencies way in advance, before anything even broke out. It kept people from organizing on the fly.</p>
			<p>“Yeah?”</p>
			<p>“Hey, we got through!” Lindsey’s voice.</p>
			<p>“Yeah,” Vive said. “Forces of darkness slow on the draw today.”</p>
			<p>“I forgot to say I want mustard. Oh, and Jen wants a samosa.”</p>
			<p>“As well as a dog, or instead?”</p>
			<p>“Instead.”</p>
			<p>“ ‘Kay.” Lindsey and Jen were at the perimeter, keeping an eye on enemy movements while Vive went for supplies. They were all veterans now, pros with two or three actions under their belts. All of them had been gassed or shocked at least once. Jen had even spent a night in a pacifier, from which they’d all learned a timely lesson in the importance of pre-game nourishment: POWs didn’t get fed for at least the first twelve hours⁠—bad enough in any case, but worse when you’d gotten yourself all ‘dorphed up for the party. Cranking your BMR <i>really</i> brought on the munchies.</p>
			<p>There was a row of vending machines lined up on the far wall of the concourse: medbooths, fashion dispensers, arrays of prepackaged foods. Vive shouldered her way through the crowd, homing in on a holographic Donair turning in space like some edible Holy Grail.</p>
			<p>Someone grabbed her from behind.</p>
			<p>Before she could react she was inside one of the medbooths, pushed up against the sensor panel. A woman with shoulder-length blond hair pinned her there, one hand splayed against Vive’s sternum. She wasn’t on the team; she had a visor across her eyes, and a backpack, and the rest of her wasn’t rifter either. A pissed-off pedestrian maybe, caught in the swarm.</p>
			<p>The medbooth door hissed shut behind her, blocking the deciblage from outside. The woman leaned back, opening a bit of a space in the crowded enclosure.</p>
			<p>“What <i>is</i> this?” the woman said.</p>
			<p>“This is <i>really</i> rude,” Vive snapped back. “Also kidnapping or something probably. Not that those⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Why are you⁠—” The woman paused. “Why the costume? What’s going on?”</p>
			<p>“It’s a street party. I guess you never got invit⁠—”</p>
			<p>The woman leaned fractionally closer. Vive shut up. There was something about this situation that was starting to give her serious pause.</p>
			<p>“Answer me,” the crazy woman said.</p>
			<p>“We’re⁠—we’re rifters,” Vive told her.</p>
			<p>“Right.”</p>
			<p>“Lenie Clarke’s in town. Haven’t you heard?”</p>
			<p>“Lenie Clarke.” The crazy woman took her hand off Vive’s chest. “No shit.”</p>
			<p>“None at all.”</p>
			<p>A sudden dim sound, like distant surf, filtered in from outside. The crazy woman didn’t seem to notice.</p>
			<p>“This is insane.” She shook her head. “What are you going to do, exactly, when Lenie Clarke shows up?”</p>
			<p>“Look, we’re just here to see what happens. I don’t make up the threads, all right?”</p>
			<p>“Get an autograph, maybe. Get a gram of flesh or two, if there’s enough to go around.”</p>
			<p>Suddenly, that voice had turned very flat and very scary.</p>
			<p><i>She could kill me,</i> Vive thought.</p>
			<p>She kept her own voice sweet and reasonable. Meek, even: “We’re not hurting you. We’re not hurting <i>anyone</i>.”</p>
			<p>“<i>Really</i>.” The crazy woman leaned in close. “You sure about that? Do you have the slightest clue who this Lenie Clarke even <i>is</i>?”</p>
			<p>Vive broke.</p>
			<p>It wasn’t a plan. At least it wasn’t a very good one. The medbooth barely held both of them, and the door was behind the crazy woman: there was no room <i>around</i>. Vive just sprang forward like a cornered dog, tried desperately to squirm past. Both fell back into the door; the door, obligingly, slid open.</p>
			<p>Even in that split-second, Vive took it in: a botfly nearby, spewing canned warnings about orderly dispersal. The movement of the crowd, no longer vague and diffuse but <i>concentrated</i>, pushed together like a school of krill in a purse seine. Conversation fading; shouts starting up.</p>
			<p>The herding was underway.</p>
			<p>Vive’s momentum carried the crazy woman less than a meter before the edge of the crowd pushed back. The rebound put both of them inside the booth again. Vive launched herself low, under the other woman’s arm⁠—sudden, tearing pain over one eye⁠—</p>
			<p>“<i>Ow!</i>”</p>
			<p>—and a hand closed around her throat, pushed her back, her legs shooting out from under her, her feet briefly trampled by some nameless crowd-particle until she pulled them back with a cry and the door slid shut again, cutting the outside world down to a faint roar.</p>
			<p>
				<i>Oh, felch⁠ ⁠…</i>
			</p>
			<p>Aviva Lu sat on the floor of the medbooth, her legs pulled up in front of her, and forced her eyes to track upward. Crazy Woman’s legs. Crazy Woman’s crotch. It seemed like it would take forever to get to the eyes, and Vive was terrified of what she’d find when she got⁠—</p>
			<p>
				<i>Wait a second⁠—</i>
			</p>
			<p>There, just to the left of Crazy Woman’s sternum⁠—a tear in her clothing, a hard crescent glint of metal.</p>
			<p><i>That’s what cut me. Something metal on her chest. Sticking</i> out of <i>her chest⁠ ⁠…</i></p>
			<p>Crazy woman’s hand. Holding her visor, broken in the scuffle, one earpiece gone. Crazy woman’s throat; a turtleneck sweatshirt covering any disfigurement there.</p>
			<p>Crazy woman’s eyes.</p>
			<p>What had she said? That’s right: <i>Do you have the slightest clue who this Lenie Clarke even is?</i></p>
			<p>“Oh, <i>wow</i>,” said Aviva Lu.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>“You’re kidding,” said Lenie Clarke. They stood facing each other, breathing each other’s air in the medbooth.</p>
			<p>“One thread said you were infected with nanobots that could reproduce outside your body and start fires when they had a big enough population. They said you were fucking your way across the world to infect everyone else, so we’d <i>all</i> have the power someday.”</p>
			<p>“It’s bullshit,” Clarke said. “It’s all bullshit. I don’t know how it got started.”</p>
			<p>“All of it?” Vive didn’t know what to make of all this. For the Meltdown Madonna, Lenie Clarke didn’t seem to have a clue. “You’re not on some kind of crusade, you’re not⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Oh, I’m on a crusade all right.” Lenie flashed a smile that Vive couldn’t decompile. “I just don’t think any of you want to see it succeed.”</p>
			<p>“Well, you <i>were</i> down in the ocean,” Vive said. “For the Big One. What <i>happened</i> down there?” It couldn’t <i>all</i> be detritus, could it? “And on the Strip? And⁠—”</p>
			<p>“What’s happening right <i>here</i>?” Lenie said.</p>
			<p>Vive gulped. “Right.”</p>
			<p>“How did they even know about me? How did <i>you</i> know?”</p>
			<p>“Well, like I said, someone spread the word.”</p>
			<p>Lenie shook her head. “I guess I’d be caught right now if it wasn’t for⁠ ⁠…”⁠—faint crowd sounds filtered through from outside⁠—”<i>that</i>⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>“Well, they’ll never tag you on visual,” Vive said. “There’s like a few <i>sagan</i> Lenie Clarkes out there, and you don’t look like any of ’em.”</p>
			<p>“Yeah. And how many of them have a chestful of machinery to go with the eyecaps?”</p>
			<p>Vive shrugged. “Probably none. But⁠—<i>oh</i>. The botflies.”</p>
			<p>“The botflies.” The Meltdown Madonna took a deep breath. “If they haven’t tagged me already, I’m going to be a big bright EM rainbow the second I step outside.”</p>
			<p>“I <i>wondered</i> why they weren’t jamming our watches,” Vive said. “They don’t want to scramble your sig.”</p>
			<p>“What if I just wait in here until everybody goes away?”</p>
			<p>“Won’t work. I’ve run this before; half-hour, tops, before they gas the whole place and just walk in.”</p>
			<p>“Shit. <i>Shit</i>.” Lenie looked around the booth like some kind of caged alien.</p>
			<p>“Wait a sec,” Vive said. “Are they looking for your <i>exact</i> signature, or just any old EM?”</p>
			<p>“How should I know?”</p>
			<p>“Well, how do your implants shine?”</p>
			<p>“A lot of myoelectrics. Boosted source for the electrolysis assembly and the reservoir dumps, of course. And the vocoder.” The rifter smiled, a tiny challenge. “That mean anything to you?”</p>
			<p>“Like a prosthetic heart, only stronger.”</p>
			<p>“Got any friends with a fake heart? Maybe I could use them as a decoy.”</p>
			<p>“<i>Les beus</i> might just round up <i>everyone</i> with implants and sort ’em out later.” Vive thought. “You don’t need a decoy, though. You just need to jam your <i>own</i> signal. You shouldn’t be putting out more than two milligausse, tops. Standard wall line would mask that, but then you wouldn’t be able to move away from the wall. And watches and visors don’t have the field strength.”</p>
			<p>Lenie cocked her head. “You some kind of expert?”</p>
			<p>Vive smiled back. “Lady, this is <i>Yankton</i>! We’ve been doing electronics since before the Dust Belt. Lins says they even invented <i>botflies</i> here, but Lins slings a lot of slaw. We’re supposed to be cramming for our practicums even as we speak, actually, but this sounded like more fun.”</p>
			<p>“Fun.” Those cold blank eyes⁠—more translucent, Vive realized, than the paste the rest of them wore⁠—stared down at her. “That’s the word I would’ve used.”</p>
			<p>A light came on in Vive’s head.</p>
			<p>“Hey,” she said. “There <i>is</i> something that puts out a bit of a field. Portable, too. It’d be touchy⁠—we’d have to play with its insides or it’d attract all kinds of the wrong attention⁠—but you wouldn’t have to be around for that part anyway.”</p>
			<p>“Yeah?” Lenie asked.</p>
			<p>“Oh yeah,” Vive told her. “No <i>problem</i>.”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p><i>Les beus</i> had the crowd cordoned off, and were pushing them back across the concourse. The rifters on the edge were getting shocked, of course, but at least nobody’d dropped any gas bombs yet. The crowd moved like an ocean, great sweeping waves emerging miraculously from the constrained jostling of a million trapped particles. The comparison went farther than that, Vive knew: human oceans had backwash, undertow. People could get sucked underneath and trampled.</p>
			<p>She let the currents carry her along. Jen and Lindsey bobbed behind her to either side. Vive had told two friends; they’d told two friends; so on; so on. All around them fission was taking place, just below the surface. You could barely see it at first; people worked their way through the crowd from all sides, tacking against the current until they were just an arm or two away from Vive <i>et al.</i> Glances, nods were exchanged. The local turbulence subsided just a tiny bit as friends and allies anchored each other against the push and pull.</p>
			<p>Within minutes Aviva Lu was the bull’s-eye in a crowded circle of calm.</p>
			<p>Three botflies approached in formation a couple of meters above the crowd, reciting the usual riot-act platitudes. Vive glanced at Jen; Jen shook her visored head. The machines cruised past, recessed muzzles dimpling their bellies.</p>
			<p>Jen tugged at her sleeve, gestured: another ‘fly coming up the concourse. Vive slipped her own visor over her eyes and magged on the target. No obvious gunports or arc electrodes. Purely surveillance, this one. Glorified note-taker. Vive looked back at Jen, at Linse.</p>
			<p>Both nodded.</p>
			<p>Vive doffed the visor and hooked it over her belt; some things you still needed your own eyes for. Her arms went around Jen’s and Lindsey’s shoulders, just three ol’ girlfriends out for a good time, nothing to see here. The crowd blocked any view of Vive pulling up her legs, now all her weight on the shoulders of her friends, now most of it weighing on the stirrups Jen and Lindsey had improvised by interlocking their hands. The ‘fly cruised closer, scanning the crowd. Maybe it was interested in this curious little knot of stability in the Brownian storm. Maybe it was on its way somewhere else entirely.</p>
			<p>If so, it never got there.</p>
			<p>The botfly was out of reach to anyone jumping unassisted from the floor; it was an easy mark for someone boosted by ‘dorphderms and a two-stage launch. Jen and Lindsey bounced into a quick squat and <i>heaved</i>, throwing Vive into the air. At the same time, Vive pushed off against their hands. She embraced her inner überchick, endorphins singing throughout her body. The botfly floated into her embrace like a big beautiful Easter egg. She wrapped her arms around it and <i>hugged</i>.</p>
			<p>The ‘fly never had a chance. Built entirely of featherweight polymers and vacuum bladders, its ground-effect lift couldn’t have been more than a kilo or two. Aviva Lu shackled it like ball with no chain, brought it down into the arms of the welcoming crowd.</p>
			<p>A roar went up on all sides. Vive knew that wordless sound, and she knew what it meant: <i>First Blood</i>.</p>
			<p>Not the last, though. Not by a long shot.</p>
			<p>They smashed the botfly against the floor, shielded by a swaying forest of human bodies. They went after the lens clusters and antennae first; they’d all be sockeye if they didn’t get the ‘fly offline real fast. It wasn’t easy. Modern tech had long since figured out how to combine <i>light</i> with <i>strong</i>, and evolution hadn’t come up with the egg-shape for no reason either. Jen and Linse had their toolkits out.</p>
			<p>On all sides, the sounds of escalation.</p>
			<p>Shouts turned to screams, rising briefly then lost in the ambient roar. Something exploded nearby. An electronic buzzer honked in the distance like a quarantine siren; official notification that the pigs were on the warpath.</p>
			<p>Pre-game show over. First period underway.</p>
			<p>Something went</p>
			<p>BANG!</p>
			<p>right in Vive’s ear; she jumped, stumbled against a pair of legs. Jen, a little too eager to cut through the carapace, had ruptured one of the vacuum bladders. A high, pure tone trumped the sound of the riot. Vive shook her head.</p>
			<p>A hand on her shoulder; Linse in her face, mouthing <i>got it</i> over the dial tone in Vive’s head. Jen held up a necklace of optical chips and a battery, strung along a mist of fine fiberop. Behind her, their buffer guard staggered against some conducted impact. The space began to collapse around them.</p>
			<p>
				<i>Go.</i>
			</p>
			<p>Vive grabbed the necklace and stood. A human storm surged and collided on all sides; she could barely see over it. Fifteen meters away a phalanx of botflies was bearing down like the Four Horsemen. Some joker in springsoles trampolined into the air and tagged the one in the lead. A tiny lightning bolt arced between jumper and jumped; Springsole Boy <i>grand mal</i>’d in midair and dropped back into the mêlée.</p>
			<p>The botflies, undeterred, were heading right for Vive.</p>
			<p><i>Oh shit</i>. Surge pushed her backward. Her feet tangled in the carcass of the dismembered floater. The opening in the crowd had completely collapsed; bodies pressed close on all sides, kept her from falling. Vive lifted her feet off the ground. The crowd carried her as though she were levitating. The wreckage passed beneath.</p>
			<p>Still the botflies came at her. <i>We weren’t fast enough. It got off a signal, it sent a picture⁠—</i></p>
			<p>She could see their electrodes. She could see their gunports. She could even see their <i>eyes</i>, staring coldly down at her behind their darkened shields⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p>
				<i>Right overhead.</i>
			</p>
			<p>Past.</p>
			<p><i>They’re after Jen and Linse</i>. Vive twisted around, following the flies in their pursuit. <i>Shit, they just left, they don’t have enough of a lead, they’re gonna⁠—</i></p>
			<p>Right out of left field, another botfly charged into view and rammed the leader.</p>
			<p>
				<i>What⁠—</i>
			</p>
			<p>The head of the phalanx skidded sideways, out of control. The attacking botfly spun and charged the next in line. It came down from above, hitting its quarry and knocking it down a meter or so.</p>
			<p>Far enough. The crowd surged up and engulfed it in a hungry, roaring wave.</p>
			<p>Bad move, that. A surveillance ‘fly was one thing; but those other ones were <i>armed</i>.</p>
			<p>Yelps. Screams. Smoke rising. The submerged botfly ascended triumphant from the crowd. The crowd tried to pull back from that epicenter, ran into its own seething resistance; a wave propagated out across the riot, the panic spreading even if the panic-stricken couldn’t.</p>
			<p>The rogue botfly was charging again. Its targets were starting to regroup.</p>
			<p><i>What the hell is going on?</i> Vive wondered. Then: <i>lucky break. Don’t waste it.</i></p>
			<p>Ten or fifteen meters to the medbooths. Solid chaos in the way. Vive started pushing. There were still people nearby who were in on the plan; they moved back as much as they could, trying to part the Red Sea for her passage. It was still start-stop all the way⁠—too many out of the loop, too many simply gone rabid on the battlefield. Even half the people who <i>had</i> grabbed the bone had dropped it again.</p>
			<p>“<i>I saw her.</i>”</p>
			<p>A K voice, calm but amped loud enough to hear over ambient. Vive threw a glance back over her shoulder.</p>
			<p>The rogue botfly was talking. “<i>I saw her come out of the ocean. I saw what⁠—</i>”</p>
			<p>One of the assault ‘flies fired. The rogue staggered in midair, wobbled dangerously.</p>
			<p>“<i>—I saw what they did on the Strip.</i>”</p>
			<p>The medbooth slid open. Clarke stood framed in the doorway.</p>
			<p>Vive leaned close, handed over the necklace. “Keep this up near your chest!” she shouted. “It’ll mask the signal!”</p>
			<p>The rifter nodded. Someone spilled between them, shouting and swinging indiscriminate fists. Lenie hammered back at that panicky face until it disappeared beneath the surface.</p>
			<p>“<i>They sent a tidal wave to kill her. They sent an earthquake. They missed.</i>”</p>
			<p>Lenie Clarke turned to the voice. Her eyes narrowed to white featureless slits. Her mouth moved, framing words drowned in the roar:</p>
			<p>
				<i>Oh, shit⁠ ⁠…</i>
			</p>
			<p>“We gotta <i>go</i>!” Vive shouted. Someone pushed her right up against Lenie’s tits. “This way!”</p>
			<p>“<i>They’re burning the whole world to catch her. She’s that important. You can’t⁠—</i>”</p>
			<p>Squeal. Feedback. The sound of sparking circuitry. Suddenly the rifter seemed rooted in midair.</p>
			<p>“<i>—You can’t let them have her⁠—</i>”</p>
			<p>The four horsemen cut loose. The rogue spun down into the crowd, gushing flame. Fresh screams. The horsemen regrouped and resumed their original course.</p>
			<p>“Come <i>on</i>!” Vive yelled. Lenie nodded. Vive led her away along the wall.</p>
			<p>The next alcove led into a public washroom. It was jampacked with rifter wannabes and trapped pedestrians desperate to wait out the party. They were still for the most part, huddled like refugees under a bridge, listening to the muted pounding coming through the walls.</p>
			<p>Two friendlies held one of the stalls. They’d already knocked out its ceiling panels. “You Aviva?” one of them asked, blinking rapidly over fake eyecaps.</p>
			<p>Vive nodded, turned to Clarke. “And <i>this</i>⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>Something indefinable passed through the room.</p>
			<p>“<i>Shit</i>,” said one of the friendlies, very softly. “I didn’t think she was real.”</p>
			<p>Lenie Clarke tilted her chin in a half-nod. “Join the club.”</p>
			<p>“So it’s true then? The burnings and the Big One and you going around raping corpses⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Probably not.”</p>
			<p>“But⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I don’t really have time to compare notes,” Clarke said.</p>
			<p>“Oh⁠—right, of course. Sorry. We can get you to the river.” The friendly cocked her head. “You still got a diveskin?”</p>
			<p>Lenie reached behind her own shoulder and tapped the backpack.</p>
			<p>“Okay,” said the other friendly. “Let’s go.” She braced on the toilet, jumped, caught some handhold in the overhead darkness and swung up out of sight.</p>
			<p>The first friendly looked around at the assembled huddlers. “Give us fifteen minutes, you guys. The last thing we need is a whole procession banging around in the crawlspace, right? Fifteen minutes, and you can make all the noise you want. Assuming you want to leave the party, that is.” She turned to Vive. “You coming?”</p>
			<p>Vive shook her head. “I’m supposed to meet up with Jen and Linse over by the fountain.”</p>
			<p>“Suit yourself. We’re gone.” The remaining friendly stirruped her hands, held them out to Clarke. “Want a boost?”</p>
			<p>“No thanks,” the rifter said. “I can manage.”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Aviva Lu was a veteran of civil unrest. She rode out the rest of the action against walls and in corners, the low-turbulence areas where you could keep your bearings and your balance without being trampled. <i>Les beus</i> brought out the heavy artillery in record time; Vive’s last view of freedom was the sight of a botfly crop-dusting the crowd with halothane. It didn’t matter. She went to sleep smiling.</p>
			<p>When she woke up, though, she wasn’t in Holding with everyone else. She was in a small white room, windowless and unfurnished except for the diagnostic table she awakened on. A man’s voice spoke to her through the walls; it was a nice voice, it would have been sexy under happier circumstances.</p>
			<p>The man behind the voice knew more about Vive’s role in the riot than she’d expected. He knew that she’d met Lenie Clarke in the flesh. He knew that she’d helped trash the botfly. Vive guessed that he’d learned that from Lindsey or Jennifer; they’d probably been caught, too. But the man didn’t talk about Vive’s friends or anyone else. He didn’t even seem all that interested in what Lenie Clarke had said, which surprised Vive quite a bit; she’d been expecting a real third-degree, with inducers and neurosplicers and the whole shot. But no.</p>
			<p>What the man seemed really interested in was the cut over Vive’s eye. Had she got it from Clarke? How close had the contact been between the two of them? Vive trotted out the obvious comebacks with their obvious lesbian overtones, but deep down she was getting really worried. This voice wasn’t playing any of the usual intimidation games. It didn’t threaten, or gloat, or tell her how many synaptic rewires it was going to take to turn her into a good citizen. It just sounded very, very sad that Aviva Lu had been dumb enough to get involved with this whole Lenie Clarke thing.</p>
			<p>Very sad, because⁠—although the man never actually said it aloud⁠—now there was really nothing he could do.</p>
			<p>Aviva Lu sat trembling on a table in a white, white room, and pissed herself.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
