<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Scheherezade</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-3" id="chapter-3-9" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Scheherezade</h3>
			<p>Fossil water, cold and gray.</p>
			<p>She remembered the local lore, although she was no longer certain how she’d learned it. Less than one percent of the Lakes hailed from runoff or rainfall; she swam through the liquid remains of a glacier that had melted ten thousand years before. It would never refill once human appetites had drained it dry.</p>
			<p>For now, there was more than enough to cover her passage.</p>
			<p>For days the mermaid had passed through its depths. Visions of a past she couldn’t remember rose like bubbles through the dark water and the pain in her side; she’d long since stopped trying to deny them. At night she would rise like some oversize plankter. She couldn’t risk coming ashore, but she’d stocked her pack with freeze-dried rations in Chicago; she’d float on the surface and tear into the vacuum-sealed pouches like a sea otter, resubmerging before dawn.</p>
			<p>She thought she remembered part of a childhood, spent where the three greatest lakes converged: Sault Sainte Marie, commercial bottleneck into Lake Superior. The city sat on its locks and dams like a troll at a bridge, extorting levies from passing tonnage. It wasn’t as populous now as it had been; four hundred kilometers from the edge of the Sovereign Quebec but still too close for some, especially in the wake of the Nunavut Lease. A giant’s shadow is a cold place to live at the best of times; a giant grown invincible overnight, nursing grudges from an oppressed childhood, was a complete nonstarter. So people had left.</p>
			<p>Lenie Clarke remembered leaving. She’d had a whole lot of firsthand experience with shadows, and giants, and unhappy childhoods. So she, too, had moved away, and kept moving until the Pacific Ocean had stood in her way and said, <i>no farther</i>. She’d settled in Hongcouver and lived day-to-day, year to year, until that moment when the Grid Authority had turned her into something that even the ocean couldn’t stop.</p>
			<p>Now she was back.</p>
			<p>Past midnight. The mermaid cut quietly through a surface squirming with reflected metropolitan light. The walls of a distant lift-lock huddled against the western sky like a low fortress, holding back the elevated waters of Lake Superior⁠—one relic, at least, still resisting depletion. Clarke kept the lock to her left, swam north to the Canadian side. Derelict wharves had been rotting there since before she’d been born. She split her hood and filled her chest with air. She left her fins behind.</p>
			<p>Even with night-eyes, there was no one else to be seen.</p>
			<p>She walked north to Queen and turned east, her feet following their own innate path beneath the dim streetlights. No one and nothing accosted her. Eastbourne Manor continued to rot undemolished, although someone had swept away the cardboard prefabs in the past twenty years.</p>
			<p>At Coulson she stopped, looking north. The house she remembered was still there, just up from the corner. Odd how little it had changed in two decades. Assuming, of course, that those memories hadn’t been⁠ ⁠… acquired⁠ ⁠… more recently.</p>
			<p>She still hadn’t seen a single vehicle, or another human being. Farther east, though⁠—on the far side of Riverview⁠—there was no mistaking the line of hovering botflies. She turned back the way she’d come; there too. They’d moved in behind her without a sound.</p>
			<p>She turned up Coulson.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>The door recognized her after all that time. It opened like a mouth, but the inside lights⁠—as if knowing she’d have no need of their services⁠—remained off.</p>
			<p>The front hall receded in front of her, barren and unfurnished; its walls glistened strangely, as if freshly lacquered. An archway cut into the left wall: the living room, where Indira Clarke used to sit and do nothing. Past that, the staircase. An empty gray throat leading up into hell.</p>
			<p>She wouldn’t be going up there just yet. She sighed and turned the corner into the living room.</p>
			<p>“Ken,” she said.</p>
			<p>The living room, too, was an unfurnished shell. The windows had been blacked out, but the faint street light leaking in through the hall was more than enough for rifter vision. Lubin stood in the middle of that stark space; he wore dryback clothes, but his eyes were capped. Just behind him, the room’s only furniture: a chair, with a man tied into it. He appeared to be merely unconscious.</p>
			<p>“You shouldn’t have come,” Lubin said.</p>
			<p>“Where else was I going to go?”</p>
			<p>Lubin shook his head. He seemed suddenly agitated. “It was a stupid move. Easy to anticipate. You must’ve known that.”</p>
			<p>“Where else was there?” she said again.</p>
			<p>“This isn’t even what you think it is. This isn’t what you remember.”</p>
			<p>“I know,” said Clarke.</p>
			<p>Lubin looked at her, frowning.</p>
			<p>“They fucked me over, Ken. I know that. I guess I knew it ever since I started having the⁠—visions, although it took me a while to⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>“<i>Then why did you come here</i>?” Ken Lubin was nowhere to be found. This thing in his place seemed almost human.</p>
			<p>“I must have had a real childhood <i>somewhere</i>,” Clarke said after a moment. “They can’t have faked all of it. This seemed like the best place to start looking.”</p>
			<p>“And you think they’ll let you? You think <i>I</i> can let you?”</p>
			<p>She looked at him. His flat, empty eyes looked back from a face in unexpected torment.</p>
			<p>“I guess not,” she sighed at last. “But you know something, Ken? It was almost worth it. Just⁠—learning this much. <i>Knowing</i> what they did to me⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>Behind Lubin, the man in the chair stirred briefly.</p>
			<p>“So what happens now?” Clarke asked. “You kill me for playing Typhoid Mary? They need me as a lab rat?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know how much that matters any more. It’s all over the place now.”</p>
			<p>“What kind of plague <i>is</i> this, anyway?” With mild surprise she noted the weakness of her own curiosity. “I mean, it’s been almost a year and I’m not dead. I don’t even have any symptoms⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>“Takes longer with rifters,” Lubin said. “And it’s not even a disease, strictly speaking. More of a soil nanobe. Locks up sulfates or something.”</p>
			<p>“That’s <i>it</i>?” Clarke shook her head. “I let all those losers fuck me and it’s not even going to <i>kill</i> them?”</p>
			<p>“It’ll kill most everyone,” Lubin said softly. “It’s just going to take a while.”</p>
			<p>“Oh.”</p>
			<p>She tried to summon some sort of reaction to that news, some gut-level feeling of appropriate scale. She was still trying when Lubin said, “You gave us a good run, anyway. No one can believe you got as far as you did.”</p>
			<p>“I had help,” Clarke said.</p>
			<p>“You heard.”</p>
			<p>“I heard a lot of things,” Clarke told him. “I don’t know what to make of any of it.”</p>
			<p>“I do,” said the man in the chair.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>“I’m sorry, Lenie,” the man said. “I tried to stop him.”</p>
			<p><i>I don’t know you.</i> Clarke looked back at Lubin. “He did?”</p>
			<p>Lubin nodded.</p>
			<p>“But he’s still alive.”</p>
			<p>“I didn’t even break anything.”</p>
			<p>“Wow.” She looked back at the bound man. “So who is he?”</p>
			<p>“Guy called Achilles Desjardins,” Lubin said. “Lawbreaker with the Entropy Patrol. Big fan of yours, actually.”</p>
			<p>“Yeah? Why’s he tied up like that?”</p>
			<p>“For the greater good.”</p>
			<p>She wondered briefly whether to pursue it. Instead she turned to Desjardins, squatted down in front of him. “You actually tried to <i>stop</i> him?”</p>
			<p>Desjardins nodded.</p>
			<p>“For me?”</p>
			<p>“Sort of. Not exactly,” he said. “It’s⁠—kind of hard to explain.” He wriggled against the elastic filaments binding him to the chair; they tightened visibly in response. “Think maybe you could cut me loose?”</p>
			<p>She glanced over her shoulder; Lubin stared back in shades of gray. “I don’t think so,” she said. “Not yet.” <i>Probably not ever.</i></p>
			<p>“Come on, you don’t need his <i>permission</i>,” Desjardins said.</p>
			<p>“You can see?” It should have been too dark for mortal eyes to have registered her movements.</p>
			<p>“He’s a ‘lawbreaker,” Lubin reminded her.</p>
			<p>“So what?”</p>
			<p>“Enhanced pattern-matching. He doesn’t actually <i>see</i> any better than your average dryback, but he’s better at interpolating weak input.”</p>
			<p>Clarke turned back to Desjardins, leaned close. “You said you knew.”</p>
			<p>“Yeah,” he said.</p>
			<p>“Tell me,” she whispered.</p>
			<p>“Look, this is <i>not the time</i>. Your friend is <i>seriously</i> unbalanced, and in case you haven’t figured it out yet we are <i>both</i>⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Actually,” Clarke said, “I don’t think Ken’s himself today. Or we’d both be dead already.”</p>
			<p>Desjardins shook his head and swallowed.</p>
			<p>“Okay, then,” Clarke said. “Do you know the story of Scheherezade? Do you remember why she told <i>her</i> stories?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, <i>Jesus</i>,” Desjardins said weakly.</p>
			<p>The mermaid smiled. “Tell us a story, Achilles⁠ ⁠…”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
