<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Soul Mate</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter">
		<section id="chapter-3-7" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Soul Mate</h3>
			<p>Someone was pounding on his door. Someone was definitely <i>not</i> taking the hint.</p>
			<p>"Killjoy! Open up!"</p>
			<p><i>Go away,</i> Desjardins thought. He flashed his findings to the rest of the Anemone team, a far-flung assemblage of 'lawbreakers he'd never met in the flesh and probably never would. <i>I</i> nailed <i>the sucker. I figured it out.</i></p>
			<p>"<i>Achilles</i>!"</p>
			<p>Grudgingly, he leaned back and thumbed the door open without looking. "What do you want, Alice?"</p>
			<p>"Lertzman's dead!"</p>
			<p>He spun in his chair. "You're <i>kidding</i>."</p>
			<p>"He was <i>pithed</i>." Jovellanos's almond eyes were wide and worried. "They found him this morning. He was braindead, he was just lying there <i>starving</i> to death. Someone stuck a needle up the base of his skull and just <i>shredded</i> his white matter… "</p>
			<p>"Jesus." Desjardins stood. "You <i>sure</i>? I mean—"</p>
			<p>"Of <i>course</i> I'm sure, you think I'm making it up? It was Lubin. It <i>had</i> to be, that's how he tracked you down, that's how he—"</p>
			<p>"Yeah, Alice, I <i>get</i> it." He took a step toward her. "Thanks for—for telling me." He began to close the door.</p>
			<p>She stuck her foot in the way. "That's <i>it</i>? That's all you've got to say?"</p>
			<p>"Lubin's gone, Alice. He's not our problem any more. And besides"— nudging her foot out of the way with his own—"you didn't like Lertzman any more than I did."</p>
			<p>He closed the door in her face.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p><i>Lertzman's dead.</i></p>
			<p>Lertzman the bureaucrat. The cyst in "system", too dormant to contribute, too deeply embedded to excise, too ineffective to matter.</p>
			<p>Dead.</p>
			<p><i>Why do you care? He was an asshole.</i></p>
			<p><i>But I</i> knew <i>him…</i></p>
			<p>The one person you know. The far-off millions you don't.</p>
			<p><i>Could've been me.</i></p>
			<p>Nothing to do about Lertzman now. Nothing to do about his killer, even: Lubin was out of Desjardins's life, hot on the trail of Lenie Clarke. If he succeeded, Ken Lubin could be the savior of the planet. Ken-the-fucking-psychopath-<i>Lubin</i>, savior of billions. It was almost funny. Maybe, after saving the world, he'd go on a killing spree to celebrate. Set up breach after breach, sealing each with extreme and unfettered prejudice. Would anyone have the heart to stop him, after all the good he'd done? The salvation of billions could buy you a whole lot of forgiveness, Desjardins supposed.</p>
			<p>Ken Lubin, for all his quirks, was doing something worthwhile. He was hunting the <i>other</i> Lenie Clarke, the <i>real</i> one. The Lenie Clarke that Achilles Desjardins had been tracking was a mirage. There was no great conspiracy after all. No global death cult. Anemone was a drooling idiot. All it knew was that tales of global apocalypse were good for breeding, and that <i>Lenie Clarke</i> was a free pass into Haven. It had only connected those threads through blind dumb luck.</p>
			<p>It was a blazing irony that the person behind the words actually lived up to the billing.</p>
			<p>Lubin's problem. Not his.</p>
			<p>But that was dead wrong, and he knew it. Lenie Clarke was <i>everyone's</i> problem. A threat to the greater good if he'd even seen one.</p>
			<p><i>Forget Lertzman. Forget Alice. Forget Rowan and Lubin and Anemone, even. None of them would matter if it wasn't for Lenie Clarke.</i></p>
			<p><i>Worry about Clarke.</i> She's <i>the one that's going to kill us all.</i></p>
			<p>She'd come onto the Oregon Strip, moved north to Hongcouver. Inland from there; she'd got through the quarantine somehow. Then nothing for a month or so, when she'd appeared in the midwest, heading south. Skirting the edge of a no-go zone that stretched across three states. Two outbreaks down at the edge of the Dust Belt. Then Yankton: the head of an arrow, pointing somewhere in the vicinity of the Great Lakes.</p>
			<p><i>Home</i>, Lubin had said. <i>Sault Sainte Marie.</i></p>
			<p>Desjardins tapped the board: the main menu for the N'AmPac Grid Authority lit up his inlays. Personnel. Clarke, Lenie.</p>
			<p><i>Deceased.</i></p>
			<p>No surprise there: bureaucracy's usual up-to-the-minute grasp of current events. At least the file hadn't been wiped.</p>
			<p>He called up next-of-kin: <i>Clarke, Indira</i> and <i>Butler, Jakob.</i></p>
			<p><i>Deceased.</i></p>
			<p><i>Suppose she couldn't get to her parents?</i> Rowan had wondered. <i>Suppose they'd been dead a long time?</i></p>
			<p>And Lubin had said, <i>The people she hates are very much alive…</i></p>
			<p>He called up the public registry. No Sault-St.-Marie listing for Indira Clarke or Jakob Butler in the past three years. That was as far back as public records went. The central archives went back another four; nothing there either.</p>
			<p><i>Suppose they'd been dead a long time?</i> Sort of an odd question, now that he thought about it.</p>
			<p><i>Forget the registry</i>, Desjardins thought. <i>Too easy to edit.</i> He tried the matchmaker instead, threw a bottle into Maelstrom and asked if anyone had seen <i>Indira Clarke</i> or <i>Jakob Butler</i> hanging out with <i>Sault Sainte Marie</i>.</p>
			<p>The hit came back from N'AmPac Directory Assistance, an inquiry over seven months old. By rights, it should have been purged just hours after its inception. It hadn't been. <i>Indira</i> was not the only Clarke it mentioned.</p>
			<p><i>Clarke, Indira</i>, went the transcript. <i>Clarke with an 'e'.</i></p>
			<p><i>How many Indira Clarkes in Sault SainteMarie?</i></p>
			<p><i>How many in all of N'Am, professional affiliation with the Maelstrom fishery, with an only female child born February 2018, named Lenie?</i></p>
			<p><i>That's not fucking pos—</i></p>
			<p>Lenie Clarke's mother did not appear to exist anywhere in North America. And Lenie Clarke hadn't known.</p>
			<p>Or at least, she hadn't <i>remembered</i>…</p>
			<p><i>And how did they choose recruits for the rifter program?</i> Desjardins reminded himself. <i>That's right—"preadaption to stressful environments"…</i></p>
			<p>Deep in his gut, something opened one eye and began growling.</p>
			<p>He was a special guy, these days. He even had a direct line to Patricia Rowan. Any time, she'd told him. Day or night. It was, after all, nearly the end of the world.</p>
			<p>She picked up on the second ring.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>"It was tough, wasn't it?" Desjardins said.</p>
			<p>"What do you mean?"</p>
			<p>"I bet antisocial personalities make really bad students. I bet it was next to impossible, taking all those head cases and turning them into marine engineers. It must have been a lot easier to do it the other way around."</p>
			<p>Silence on the line.</p>
			<p>"Ms. Rowan?"</p>
			<p>She sighed. "We weren't happy about the decision, Doctor."</p>
			<p>"I should fucking hope <i>not</i>," he said. "You took <i>human beings</i> and—"</p>
			<p>"Dr. Desjardins, this is not your concern."</p>
			<p>"Yeah? You’re confident making that kind of call, after the last time?"</p>
			<p>"I'm sure I don't know what you mean."</p>
			<p>"<i>Behemoth</i> wasn't my concern either, remember? You were so worried about some other <i>corpse</i> getting a leg up when it got out, but there was no way you were going to come to <i>us</i>, were you? No ma'am. You handed the reins to a <i>head cheese</i>."</p>
			<p>"Dr.—"</p>
			<p>"Why do you think CSIRA even <i>exists</i>? Why chain us all to Guilt Trip <i>if you aren't going to use us anyway?</i>"</p>
			<p>"I'm sorry, Doctor—were you under the impression that Guilt Trip made you <i>infallible</i>?" Rowan's voice was laced with frostbite. "It does not. It simply keeps you from being <i>deliberately</i> corrupt, and it does that by linking to your own gut feelings. And believe it or not, being especially tied to one's gut is <i>not</i> the best qualification for long-term problem-solving."</p>
			<p>"That's not—"</p>
			<p>"You're like any other mammal, Doctor. Your sense of reality is anchored in the present. You'll naturally inflate the near term and sell the long term short, tomorrow's disaster will always feel less real than today's inconvenience. You may be unbeatable at putting out brush fires, but I shudder to think of how you'd handle issues that extend into the next <i>decade</i>, let alone the next century. Guilt Trip would herd you toward the short-term payoff every time."</p>
			<p>Her voice gentled a bit. "Surely, if we've learned <i>anything</i> from recent history, it's that sometimes the short term must be sacrificed for the long."</p>
			<p>She waited, as if challenging him to disagree. The silence stretched.</p>
			<p>"It wasn't such a radical technique, really," she said at last.</p>
			<p>"What wasn't?"</p>
			<p>"They're a lot more common than you might think. Even <i>real</i> memories are just—cobbled together out of bits and pieces, mostly. After the fact. Doesn't take much to coax the brain into cobbling those pieces together in some other way. Power of suggestion, more than anything. People even do it by accident."</p>
			<p><i>She's defending herself</i>, Desjardins realized. <i>Patricia Rowan is actually trying to justify her actions. To</i> me<i>.</i></p>
			<p>"So what others did by accident, you did on purpose," he said.</p>
			<p>"We were more sophisticated. Drugs, hypnosis. Some deep ganglionic tweaks to keep real memories from surfacing."</p>
			<p>"You fucked her in the head."</p>
			<p>"Do you know what it is, to be <i>fucked in the head</i>? Do you know what that colorful little phrase actually <i>means</i>? It means a proliferation of certain receptor sites and stress hormones. It means triggers set at increased firing thresholds. It's <i>chemistry</i>, Doctor, and when you believe you've been abused—well, belief's just another set of chemicals in the mix, isn't it? You get a—a sort of cascade effect, your brain rewires itself, and suddenly you can survive things that would leave the rest of us pissing in our boots. Yes, we faked Lenie Clarke's childhood. Yes, she was never really abused—"</p>
			<p>"By her <i>parents</i>," Desjardins interjected.</p>
			<p>"—but the fact that she <i>believes</i> she was abused is what made her strong enough to survive the rift. <i>Fucking her in the head</i> probably saved her life a dozen times over."</p>
			<p>"And now," Desjardins pointed out, "she's heading back to a home she never had, gunning for parents who don't exist, driven by abuses that never happened. Her whole definition of herself is a lie."</p>
			<p>"And I thank God for that," Rowan said.</p>
			<p>"<i>What</i>?"</p>
			<p>"Have you forgotten the woman's a living brood sac for the end of the <i>world</i>? At least we know where she's going. Ken can head her off. That—that <i>definition</i> of herself makes her predictable, Doctor. It means we might still be able to save the earth."</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Random intelligence from around the world scrolled on all sides. He didn't see it.</p>
			<p><i>Ken can head her off.</i></p>
			<p>Ken Lubin was Guilt-Tripped for tight security. Lubin kept slipping up, just so he could prove that again and again.</p>
			<p><i>Someone got away, once</i>, he'd said. And then: <i>It's a shame. She really deserved a fighting chance…</i></p>
			<p>Lenie Clarke had had more than a fighting chance: she had legions of followers watching her back. But they'd never really been following <i>her</i>. They'd been chasing some blue-shifted evolutionary distortion, racing past at lightspeed. Unless Anemone knew where she was and sounded the alarm—and whatever else it was, Anemone was no clairvoyant—how would anyone even <i>know</i> about the lone black figure crawling past them in the night?</p>
			<p>Lenie Clarke was just one woman. And Ken Lubin was hunting her down.</p>
			<p>There was no great need to kill her. She could be cleansed. She could be neutralized without being erased. But that wouldn't matter, not to Lubin.</p>
			<p><i>She's the only security breach he ever left unsealed. That's what he said.</i></p>
			<p>Achilles Desjardins had never met Lenie Clarke. By rights, she should be one of the far-off millions. And yet, somehow, he <i>knew</i> her: someone driven entirely by other people's motives. Everything she did, everything she felt, was the result of surgical and biochemical lies placed within her for the service of others.</p>
			<p><i>Oh yes. I know her all right.</i></p>
			<p>Suddenly, the fact that she was also a vector for global apocalypse barely even mattered any more. Lenie Clarke had a <i>face</i>. He could feel her in his gut, another human being, far more real than the distant abstraction of an eight-digit death toll.</p>
			<p><i>I'm going to get to her first.</i></p>
			<p>Sure, Lubin was a trained killer; but Desjardins had his own set of enhancements. All 'lawbreakers did. His system was awash in chemicals that could crank his reflexes into overdrive in an instant. And with luck—if he moved fast enough—he might just beat Lubin to the target. He might, just barely, have half a chance.</p>
			<p>It wasn't his job. It wasn't the greater good.</p>
			<p>Fuck both those things.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
