<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-CA">
	<head>
		<title>Source Code</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-1-23" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Source Code</h3>
			<p>He’d left the map smoldering on his board the night before. Alice Jovellanos was waiting beside it, ready to pounce.</p>
			<p>“Why didn’t you <i>say</i> something?” On the display, a luminous bloodstain ran down the coast from Westport to Copalis Beach.</p>
			<p>“Alice⁠—”</p>
			<p>“You’ve got a hot zone the size of a <i>city</i> here! How long have you known?”</p>
			<p>“Just last night. I tightened some of the correlations and ran it against yesterday’s snaps and⁠—”</p>
			<p>She cut him off: “You let this sit all <i>night</i>? Jesus <i>Christ</i>, Killjoy, what’s wrong with you? We’ve got to call in the troops and I mean <i>now</i>.”</p>
			<p>He stared at her. “Since when did <i>you</i> join the fire brigade? You know what’ll happen the moment we pass this up the line. We don’t even know what ßehemoth <i>does</i> y⁠—”</p>
			<p>Her expression stopped him cold.</p>
			<p>He slumped into his chair. The display bled crimson light all over him. “Is it that bad?”</p>
			<p>“It’s worse,” she said.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>A lumpy rainbow, a string of clustered beads folded around itself: purines or pyrimidines or nucleics or whatever the fuck they were.</p>
			<p>ßehemoth’s source code. Part of it, anyway.</p>
			<p>“It’s not even a helix,” he said at last.</p>
			<p>“Actually, it’s got a weak left-handed twist. That’s not the point.”</p>
			<p>“What is?”</p>
			<p>“Pyranosal RNA. Much stronger Watson-Crick pairs than your garden-variety RNA, and a lot more selective in terms of pairing modes. Guanine-rich sequences won’t self-pair, for one thing. Six-sided ring.”</p>
			<p>“English, Alice. So what?”</p>
			<p>“It’ll replicate faster than the stuff in your genes, and it won’t make as many errors when it does.”</p>
			<p>“But what does it <i>do</i>?”</p>
			<p>“It just <i>lives</i>, Killjoy. It lives, and it eats, and I think it does that better than anything else on the planet so we either stamp it out or kiss the whole biosphere goodbye.”</p>
			<p>He couldn’t believe it. “<i>One bug</i>? How is that even possible?”</p>
			<p>“Nothing eats it, for one thing. The cell wall’s barely even organic, mostly it’s just a bunch of sulfur compounds. You know how I told you some bacteria use inverted aminos to make themselves indigestible? This is ten times worse⁠—most anything that might eat this fucker wouldn’t even recognise it as food through all the minerals.”</p>
			<p>Desjardins bit his lower lip.</p>
			<p>“It gets better,” Jovellanos went on. “This thing’s a veritable black hole of sulfur assimilation. I don’t know where it learned this trick but it can snatch the stuff right out of our <i>cells</i>. Some kind of lysteriolysin analog, keeps it from getting lysed. That gums up glucose transport, protein synthesis, lipid and carb metabolism⁠—shit, it gums up <i>everything</i>.”</p>
			<p>“There’s no shortage of <i>sulfur</i>, Alice.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, there’s lots to go around <i>now</i>. We fart the stuff out, nobody’s even bothered to come up with a recommended daily dosage. But this, this <i>ßehemoth,</i> it needs sulfur even more than we do. And it breeds faster and it chews faster and believe me, Killjoy, in a few years there is <i>not</i> going to be enough to go around and this little fucker’s gonna have the market <i>cornered</i>.”</p>
			<p>“That’s just⁠—” A straw floated to the front of his mind. He grasped it: “How can you be so sure? You didn’t even think you had all the pieces to work with.”</p>
			<p>“I was wrong.”</p>
			<p>“But⁠—you said no phospholipids, no⁠—”</p>
			<p>“<i>It doesn’t have those things. It never did.</i>”</p>
			<p>“What?”</p>
			<p>” It’s <i>simple</i>, it’s so simple it’s bloody well indestructible. No bilayer membranes, no⁠—” She spread her hands, as if in surrender. “Yeah, I <i>did</i> think maybe they scrambled the sample to keep me from stealing trade secrets. Maybe even filtered some stuff right out, stupid as that might seem. Corpses have done dumber things. But I was wrong.” She ran the fingers of one hand nervously over her scalp. “It was all there. All the pieces. And you know why I think they scrambled them up the way they did? I think they were afraid of what this thing could do if they left it in one piece.”</p>
			<p>“Shit.” Desjardins eyed the beads rotating on the display. “So we either stop this thing or we get used to eating from Calvin cyclers for the rest of our lives.”</p>
			<p>Jovellanos’s eyes were bright as quartz. “You don’t get it.”</p>
			<p>“Well, what else could we do? If it cuts the whole biosphere off at the ankles, if⁠—”</p>
			<p>“You think this is about protecting the <i>biosphere?</i>” she cried. “You think they’d give a shit about environmental apocalypse if we could just <i>synthesise</i> our way out of the hole? You think they’re launching all these cleansing strikes to protect the frigging <i>rainforest</i>?”</p>
			<p>He stared at her.</p>
			<p>Jovellanos shook her head. “Killjoy, it can get right inside our <i>cells</i>. Calvin cyclers don’t matter. Sulfur supplements don’t matter. Nothing we take in does us any good until our cells metabolise it⁠—and whatever we take in, as soon as it gets past the cell membrane⁠ ⁠… there’s ßehemoth, pushing to the front of the line. We’ve already been way luckier than we deserve. Sure, it’s not as efficient up here as it is in a hyperbaric environment, but that only means the locals can beat it back ninety-nine times out of a hundred. And⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>And the dice had just kept rolling, and the hundredth throw had landed square on the Oregon coast. Desjardins knew the story: microbes, in sufficient numbers, make their own rules. Now there was a place in the sun where ßehemoth didn’t have to fit into someone else’s world. It had begun creating its own: trillions of microscopic terraformers at work in the soil, changing pH and electrolyte balances, stripping away all the advantages once held by natives so precisely adapted to the way things <i>used</i> to be⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p>It was every crisis he’d ever faced, combined and distilled and reduced to pure essence. It was chaos breaking, maybe unbreakable: little bubbles of enemy territory growing across the face of the coast, then the continent, then the planet. Eventually there’d come a fulcrum, a momentary balance of some interest to the theoreticians. The area inside and outside the bubbles would be the same. An instant later, ßehemoth would <i>be</i> the outside, a new norm that enclosed shrinking pockets of some other, irrelevant reality.</p>
			<p>Alice Jovellanos⁠—rager within The System, face of the faceless, staunch advocate of the Rights of the Individual⁠—was looking at him with fire and fear in her eyes.</p>
			<p>“Whatever it takes,” she said. “Whatever the cost. Or we are definitely out of a job.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
