<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Matchmaker</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter">
		<section id="chapter-2-7" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Matchmaker</h3>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter" class="network-post">
				<p>Prions:</p>
				<p>OK</p>
				<p>Viruses:</p>
				<p>Adeno</p>
				<p>OK</p>
				<p>Arbo</p>
				<p>OK</p>
				<p>Arena</p>
				<p>OK</p>
				<p>Filo</p>
				<p>ben</p>
				<p>Morbilli</p>
				<p>chron/asymp</p>
				<p>Orbi</p>
				<p>OK</p>
				<p>Paramyx</p>
				<p>chron/asymp</p>
				<p>Parvo</p>
				<p>OK</p>
				<p>Picorna</p>
				<p>OK</p>
				<p>Hanta</p>
				<p>resid</p>
				<p>Retro</p>
				<p>resid</p>
				<p>Rota</p>
				<p>light</p>
				<p>Bacteria:</p>
				<p>Bacillus</p>
				<p>heavy/norm</p>
				<p>Coccus</p>
				<p>norm</p>
				<p>Myco/Spiro</p>
				<p>STD mod</p>
				<p>Chlam:</p>
				<p>OK</p>
				<p>Fungi:</p>
				<p>not crit</p>
				<p>Protozoa:</p>
				<p>not crit</p>
				<p>Nematode:</p>
				<p>OK</p>
				<p>Platyhelminth:</p>
				<p>OK</p>
				<p>Cestode:</p>
				<p>OK</p>
				<p>Arthropod:</p>
				<p>OK</p>
				<p><b>Cleared for Travel.</b></p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>"Are you sure? No—no ergots, or psychoactives?"</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter" class="network-post">
				<p>Cleared for travel. Please proceed to check-in.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>"Are you equipped for NMR?"</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter" class="network-post">
				<p>This booth is designed to scan for communicable parasites and diseases. You may visit a commercial medbooth if you wish to be tested for other disorders.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>"Where's the nearest commercial medbooth, then?"</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter" class="network-post">
				<p>Please don't leave me.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>"I—<i>what</i>?"</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter" class="network-post">
				<p>Stay, Lenie. We can work it out.</p>
				<p>Besides. There's someone you should meet.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>The screen went dark. The bead in her ear emitted a tiny belch of static.</p>
			<p>"It's me," said a sudden voice. "Sou-Hon. From the bus station."</p>
			<p>She grabbed her visor and fled into the tame green jungle of Concourse D. Startled pedestrian eyes, barely noticed, met her own. She slid the visor onto her face, not slowing.</p>
			<p>"You don't understand." The voice was a small pleading thing in her ear. "I'm on your side. I'm—"</p>
			<p>Glass doors, leading outside. Clarke pushed through. Sudden icy wind reduced global warming to a weak abstraction. The concourse arced around from behind her like a horseshoe-shaped canyon.</p>
			<p>"I'm here to <i>help—</i>"</p>
			<p>Clarke tapped her watch twice in succession. "Command mode," the device replied.</p>
			<p>"Off" she told it.</p>
			<p>"<i>Amitav's de</i>—"</p>
			<p>"Off," the watch acknowledged, and fell instantly asleep.</p>
			<p>She was alone.</p>
			<p>The sidewalk was empty. Light spilled from the warren of habitrail tubes that shielded McCall's patrons from winter. The whine of distant turbines drifted down from the rooftops.</p>
			<p>Two taps. "On."</p>
			<p>A soft fuzz of static from the earpiece, although her watch was well within its operational two-meter radius.</p>
			<p>"Are you there?" she said.</p>
			<p>"Yes."</p>
			<p>"What about Amitav?"</p>
			<p>"Just before it—I mean—" The voice caught on itself. "They just <i>burned</i> everything. Everyone. He must have been..."</p>
			<p>A passing gust of wind snapped at her face. The mermaid took a bitterly cold breath.</p>
			<p>"I'm sorry," the stranger whispered in her head.</p>
			<p>Clarke turned and went back inside.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
