<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-CA">
	<head>
		<title>Zeus</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-2" id="chapter-2-1" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Zeus</h3>
			<p>Sou-<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Hon.</abbr> Perreault was closing on a riot when they shut her down.</p>
			<p>It was Amitav, of course. She knew that the moment she saw the location of the disturbance: a Calvin cycler in trouble at Grenville Point, less than two klicks from his last known position. She jumped into the nearest botfly and rode it down.</p>
			<p>Somehow the refs had uprooted a lightstand and used it as a battering ram; the cycler had been skewered through the heart. A dozen brands of amino goop oozed viscously from the wound, a pusy mix of ochres and browns. Underweight refugees⁠—some oozing blood from scabby sores⁠—shouted and pushed against the front of the wounded machine, toppling it.</p>
			<p>The larger crowd on all sides drew back, rudderless and confused, as powerless as ever.</p>
			<p>“<i>kholanA ApakA netra, behen chod!</i>”</p>
			<p>Amitav, climbing onto the fallen cycler. Perreault’s botfly parsed phonemes, settled on <i>Hindi</i>.</p>
			<p>“<i>Open your eyes, sisterfuckers! Is it not bad enough you should eat their poison? Will you sit here with your hands up your asses while they send</i> another <i>wave to finish the job! Lenie Clarke wasn’t enough for you, yes? She survived the center of the storm itself, she</i> told <i>you who the enemy was! She fights them while you sleep on the dirt! What will it take to wake you up?”</i></p>
			<p>Amitav’s disciples shouted ragged approval; the others milled and murmured among themselves. <i>Amitav,</i> Perreault thought, <i>you’ve crossed the line.</i></p>
			<p>The stickman glanced skyward and threw up one spindly arm, pointing at Perreault’s descending botfly. “Look! They send <i>machines</i> to tell us what to do! They⁠—”</p>
			<p>Sudden darkness, silent and unrelieved.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>She waited. After a few seconds, two lines of luminous text began blinking against the void:</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>
					<i>CSIRA Containment Zone</i>
				</p>
				<p>
					<i>(N’AmPac Biohazards Act, 2040)</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>She’d run into dark zones before, of course. Some ‘fly she was riding would drop suddenly into shadow, floating serenely blind and deaf for fifty meters or twenty klicks. Then, safely out of insight’s way, it would come back online.</p>
			<p>But why cite the Biohazards Act over a trashed cycler?</p>
			<p>
				<i>Unless it isn’t about the cycler⁠ ⁠…</i>
			</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>She linked into the next ‘fly back in line: <i>CSIRA Containment Zone</i> flashed against unwelcome darkness. She relinked to one before that, and the one after, bouncing back and forth toward the edges of the blackout.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Eight point one eight kilometers from end to end.</p>
			<p>Now she was sighted and riding southbound, just beyond the northern perimeter. She topped out the whole spectrum, stared through a tangle of false-color infra and <span epub:type="z3998:roman">X</span> and UV, poked into the fog with radar⁠—</p>
			<p>
				<i>There⁠—</i>
			</p>
			<p>Something in the sky. A brief image, fading almost immediately to black.</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>
					<i>CSIRA Containment Zone⁠ ⁠…</i>
				</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>She backjumped again, set her defaults to repeat the maneuver whenever visual went down. She saw it again, and again: a great curtain, darkness. A billowing wall descending to earth, darkness. An inflatable barrier, swelling smoothly across the width of the Strip.</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>Darkness. <i>CSIRA Containment Z⁠—</i></p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>She considered.</p>
			<p>They’d cut off eight kilometers of Strip, a segment nearly nine hundred meters wide. It would take several dampers to cover that much area, assuming they were squelching tightbeam as well as broadband. The dampers would probably be mounted on the wall itself.</p>
			<p>Chances were their coverage wouldn’t extend out to sea very far.</p>
			<p>A northbound ‘fly had just emerged from eclipse. Perreault mounted it and rode west off the path, keeping low. Surf pounded close beneath; then she was past the breakers and cruising over a low oily swell. She turned south.</p>
			<p>There was traffic out here after all. An assault chopper with ambiguous markings hovered threateningly over a pair of retreating pleasure boats, a damper dome disfiguring its hull like a tumor. A smattering of botflies flitted closer to shore, of a different sort than Sou-<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Hon.</abbr> Perreault rode. None of them took any notice of her; or if they did, they credited her ‘fly with higher pedigree than it deserved.</p>
			<p>She was eight hundred meters offshore, still skimming the swells. Due west of Amitav’s latest insurrection. Perreault slowed her mount and came about, heading inland.</p>
			<p>Breakers in the distance, a smear of muddy sand, a boil of motion farther up the shore. She cut the throttle and hovered, her senses still intact.</p>
			<p>Mag: motion resolved into melee.</p>
			<p>Everyone was <i>running</i>. Perreault had never seen such a high level of activity on the Strip before. There was no net direction to the movement, no exodus. Nowhere, apparently, to go. Some of the strippers were splashing into the surf; the botflies she’d seen earlier were forcing them back. Most were just going back and forth.</p>
			<p>Something in the clouds was stabbing the mob with flashes of green light.</p>
			<p>She panned up, almost missing it: a fast-moving botfly disappearing to the south. And now her own ‘fly was bleating, something coming up behind, big and low-flying and stealthed⁠—</p>
			<p>
				<i>Of course it’s stealthed, or radar would have caught it sooner⁠—</i>
			</p>
			<p>—and <i>way</i> too close to escape from now.</p>
			<p>She spun the ‘fly around and saw it coming not two hundred meters out: a lifter headed for shore like a levitating whale. Rows of portholes lined its belly, strange brassy things from another age, soft orange gaslight flickering behind the glass. She squinted in her headset, tried to dispel the Victorian image. Sudden electricity crackled from a knob on the airship’s hull; blinding light flared and died in Perreault’s eyes. Alphanumerics persisted briefly in the darkness, the last gibbering cough of the ‘fly’s navigational system. Then nothing but a flashing epitaph:</p>
			<p>
				<i>Link Down. Link Down. Link Down.</i>
			</p>
			<p>She barely noticed. She didn’t try to reconnect⁠—by now the ‘fly was on its way to the bottom. She didn’t even jump to another channel. She was too busy thinking about what she’d seen. She was too busy imagining what she hadn’t.</p>
			<p>Not portholes after all. The wide-bore muzzles of industrial flamethrowers. Their pilot lights had flickered like hot tongues.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
