<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Monster</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-1-31" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Monster</h3>
			<p>The monster had Tracy in his clutches. He thought he was safely hidden, curled up there in the dark with his victim, but Lenie Clarke could see him bright as an overcast day.</p>
			<p>She stepped softly across the cabin, leaving icewater footprints. She’d donned the rest of her diveskin to cut the chill; a cleansing fire spread through her limbs, hot blood burning its way back into frozen flesh.</p>
			<p>She liked the feeling.</p>
			<p>Tracy stared up from her father’s embrace. Her eyes were like saucers, imploring beacons full of fear and paralysis.</p>
			<p>
				<i>It’s okay, little friend. He doesn’t get away with it any more.</i>
			</p>
			<p>
				<i>First step⁠ ⁠…</i>
			</p>
			<p>Clarke leaned in close.</p>
			<p>… <i>free the hostage.</i></p>
			<p>She ripped the covers away. The monster opened his eyes, blinking stupidly against a darkness that had suddenly turned against him. Tracy lay stock-still in her pajamas, still too frightened to move.</p>
			<p><i>PJ’s</i>, Clarke thought wryly. <i>Nice touch.</i> <i>On his best behavior when company’s present.</i></p>
			<p>Present company wasn’t fooled.</p>
			<p>Quick as a snake, she took Tracy by the wrist. Then the child was safe beside her, Clarke’s free arm protectively around her shoulder.</p>
			<p>Tracy howled.</p>
			<p>“What the <i>hell</i>⁠ ⁠…” The monster was reaching for the lightstick beside the cot. Fine. Let him have light enough to see the tables, turning⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p>The cabin flared, blinding her for a moment before her eyecaps adjusted. Gordon was rising from the cot. Clarke raised the billy. “<i>Don’t you fucking move.</i>”</p>
			<p>“<i>Daddy!</i>” Tracy cried.</p>
			<p>The monster spread his hands, placating, buying time. “Lenie⁠—listen, I don’t know what you want⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Really?” She’d never felt so strong in her whole life. “I sure as shit know what <i>you</i> want.”</p>
			<p>He shook his head. “Listen, just let Tracy go, okay? Whatever it is, there’s no need to involve her⁠—”</p>
			<p>Clarke stepped forward; Tracy bumped along at her side, whimpering. “<i>No need to involve her?</i> It’s a little late for that, asshole. It’s <i>way</i> too fucking late<i>.</i>”</p>
			<p>The monster stopped still for a second. Then, slowly, as if in dawning awareness: “What do you⁠—do you think I⁠—”</p>
			<p>Clarke laughed. “Good one.”</p>
			<p>“You don’t think⁠—”</p>
			<p>Tracy pulled. “Daddy, <i>help</i>!”</p>
			<p>Clarke held on. “It’s okay, Tracy. He can’t hurt you.”</p>
			<p>The monster took a step forward. “It’s okay, Lima-bean. She just doesn’t underst⁠—”</p>
			<p>“<i>Shut up! Shut the fuck up!</i>”</p>
			<p>He stepped back, hands up, palms front. “Okay, okay⁠—just don’t⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I <i>understand</i>, asshole. I understand <i>way</i> fucking better than you think.”</p>
			<p>“That’s crazy, Lenie. Just <i>look</i> at her, why don’t you? Is it <i>me</i> she’s scared of? Is she <i>acting</i> like she wants to be rescued? Use your <i>eyes</i>! What in <i>God’s</i> name made you think⁠—”</p>
			<p>“You think I don’t know? You think I don’t remember how it <i>feels</i>, when you don’t know any better? You think because you’ve brainwashed your own daughter into thinking this is <i>normal</i> that I’m going to⁠—”</p>
			<p>“<i>I never touched her!</i>”</p>
			<p>Tracy twisted free and ran. Clarke, off-balance, reached after her.</p>
			<p>Suddenly Gordon was in the way.</p>
			<p>“You goddamned <i>psycho</i>,” he snarled, and hit her in the face.</p>
			<p>Something <i>cracked</i>, deep at the base of her jaw. She staggered. Salty warmth flooded her mouth. In a moment there’d be pain.</p>
			<p>But now there was only a sudden, paralyzing fear, resurrected from the dawn of time.</p>
			<p><i>No</i>, she thought. <i>You’re stronger than him. You’re stronger than he</i> ever <i>was, you don’t have to put up with his vile shit one instant longer. You’re going to teach him a lesson he won’t</i> ever <i>fucking forget just jam him in the belly and watch him expl⁠—</i></p>
			<p>“<i>Lenie, no!</i>” Tracy cried. Clarke glanced aside, distracted.</p>
			<p>A mountain smashed against the side of her head. Somehow the billy wasn’t in her hand any more; it was following some crazy parabola through a world spinning uncontrollably sideways. The rough wooden planking of the cabin floor drove splinters into Clarke’s face. Off in some unfathomably distant part of the world, a child was screaming <i>Daddy⁠ ⁠…</i></p>
			<p>“Daddy,” Clarke mumbled through pulpy lips. It had been so many years, but he was back at last. And nothing had really changed after all.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p><i>It was my own damn fault</i>, she thought dully. <i>I was just asking for it.</i></p>
			<p>If she could only have one moment to live again, she knew, she’d get it right. She’d hang on the billy this time, she’d make him pay <i>like that cop in West Bend I got</i> him <i>all right, his whole middle just a big cloud of chunky soup, nothing left but a raw bleeding backbone holding two ends together and he’s not gonna be throwing his weight around after</i> that<i>, what little weight there is left hahaha⁠ ⁠…</i></p>
			<p>But that was then. This was now, and a big rough hand on her shoulder was flipping her onto her back. “<i>You twisted piece of shit</i>!” the monster roared. “You lay a <i>hand</i> on my daughter and I’ll fucking <i>kill</i> you!” He dragged her off the floor and slammed her against the wall. His daughter was crying somewhere in the background, his own <i>daughter</i> but of course he didn’t care about that he only wanted⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p>She squirmed and twisted and the next blow glanced off her shoulder and suddenly she was free, the open door was right in front of her and all that safe darkness on the other side, <i>monsters can’t see in the dark but I can⁠—</i></p>
			<p>Something tripped her and she went down again but she didn’t stop, she just scuttled out the door like a crab with half its legs gone, while Daddy bellowed and crashed close on her heels.</p>
			<p>Her hand, pushing off against the ground, touched something⁠—</p>
			<p><i>The</i> billy <i>it flew all the way out here I’ve got it now I can show him⁠—</i></p>
			<p>—but she didn’t. She just grabbed it and <i>ran</i>, vomiting with fear and her own cowardice, she ran into a welcoming night where everything was bright silver and gray under the moon. She ran to the lake and she didn’t even remember to seal her face flap until the whole world was spray and icewater.</p>
			<p>Straight down, clawing the water as though it, too, were an enemy. It was mere moments before the bottom came into view, it was only a <i>lake</i> after all and it wasn’t deep enough, it wasn’t far enough, Daddy would just stroll down to the shore and reach down with his <i>hands⁠ ⁠…</i></p>
			<p>She beat against the substrate. Waterlogged detritus billowed around her. She attacked the rock for days, for years, while some distant part of her shook its head at her own stupidity.</p>
			<p>Eventually she lost even the strength to panic.</p>
			<p>
				<i>I can’t stay here.</i>
			</p>
			<p>Her jaw felt stiff and swollen in its socket.</p>
			<p>
				<i>I’ve got the edge in the dark, at least. He won’t leave the cabin before daybreak.</i>
			</p>
			<p>Something smooth and artificial lay nearby, its outlines hazed by distance and resettled sediment. The billy. She must have dropped it when she sealed her hood. She slipped it back into its sheath.</p>
			<p><i>Not that it did me any good</i> last <i>time⁠ ⁠…</i></p>
			<p>She pushed off the bottom.</p>
			<p>There’d been an old topographic map tacked up on one wall of the cabin, she remembered. It had shown other cabins dotted intermittently along some forestry patrol route. Probably empty most of the time. There was one up north along⁠—what had it been called⁠—Nigel Creek. She could get away, she could leave the monster far behind</p>
			<p>—<i>and Tracy⁠—</i></p>
			<p><i>Oh, God. Tracy</i>.</p>
			<p>She broke the surface.</p>
			<p>Her knapsack lay on the shore where she’d left it. The cabin squatted at the far end of the clearing, its door shut tight. The lights were on inside; curtains had been drawn on the window, but the glow leaking around them would be obvious even without eyecaps.</p>
			<p>She crawled from the lake. A dozen kinds of pain welcomed her return to gravity. She ignored them, keeping her eyes on the window. She was too far away to see the edge of the curtain pulling back, just enough to afford a view to some hidden eye. She saw it anyway.</p>
			<p>Tracy was in there.</p>
			<p>Lenie Clarke had not rescued her. Lenie Clarke had barely gotten away herself, and Tracy⁠—Tracy still belonged to Gordon.</p>
			<p>
				<i>Help her.</i>
			</p>
			<p>It had seemed so easy, before. If only she hadn’t lost the billy⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p><i>You’ve got it now. It’s right there on your leg.</i> Help <i>her, for God’s sake⁠ ⁠…</i></p>
			<p>Breath caught in her throat.</p>
			<p><i>You know what he does to her. You</i> know. <i>Help her⁠ ⁠…</i></p>
			<p>She drew her knees to her chest and hugged them, but her shoulders wouldn’t stop shaking. Her sobs sounded far too loud in the silver clearing.</p>
			<p>From the shuttered, silent cabin there was no reaction at all.</p>
			<p>
				<i>Help her, you coward. You worthless piece of shit. Help her⁠ ⁠…</i>
			</p>
			<p>After a very long time she reached for her pack. Then she got to her feet and walked away.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
