<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Mug Shot</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter">
		<section id="chapter-3-1" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Mug Shot</h2>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>Exotics Infestation: Executive Summary (nontechnical)</p>
				<p>DO NOT mail</p>
				<p>DO NOT send through Haven</p>
				<p>DO NOT copy</p>
				<p>PURGE AFTER DECRYPT</p>
				<p>To: Rowan, PC.</p>
				<p>Priority: <b>Ultra (Global PanD)</b></p>
				<p>EID Code: ßehemoth</p>
				<p>General Classification: nanobial/decomposer</p>
				<p>Taxonomy: Formal nomenclature awaiting declassified release to Linnean Society. Eventual outgroup clade to be at supraDomain level.</p>
				<p>Description: Unique heterotrophic nanobe, 200⁠–⁠250nm diameter. Opportunistic freeliver/commensal. Genome 1.1M (pRNA template): nonsense codons &lt;0.7% of total.</p>
				<p>Biogeography: Originally native to hydrothermal deep-sea environments; 14 relict populations confirmed (Fig. 1). Can also exist symbiotically in intracellular environments with salinity ≤ 30ppt and/or temperatures ranging from 4⁠–⁠60°C. A secondary strain has been found with advanced adaptations for intracellular existence.</p>
				<p>Evolution/Ecology: ßehemoth is the only organism known to have truly terrestrial origins, predating the Martian Panspermia event by approximately 800 million years. The existence of a secondary strain geared especially to the eukaryotic intracellular environment is reminiscent of the Precambrian serial endosymbiosis which gave rise to mitochondria and other modern subcellular organelles. Free-living ßehemoth expends significant metabolic energy maintaining homeostasis in stressful hydrothermal environments. Intracellularly, infectious ßehemoth produces an ATP surplus which can be utilized by the host cell. This results in abnormal growth and giantism amongst certain deepwater fish; it confers increases in stamina and strength to infected humans in the short term, although these benefits are massively outweighed by disruption of short-chain sulfur-containing proteins and consequent deficiency syndromes (see below).</p>
				<p>Notable Histological &amp; Genetic Features: No phospholipid membranes: body wall consists of accreted mineralized sulfur/phosphate compounds. Genetic template based upon Pyranosal RNA (Fig.2); also used for catalysis of metabolic reactions. Resistant to g-radiation (1 megarad not effective). The ßehemoth genome contains Blachford genes analagous to the metamutators of <i>Pseudomonas</i>; these allow it to dynamically increase mutation rate in response to environmental change, and are probably responsible for its ability to fool steroid receptors on the host cell membrane.</p>
				<p>Modes of Attack: Freed from the rigors of the hydrothermal environment, free-living ßehemoth assimilates several inorganic nutrients 26⁠–⁠84% more efficiently than its closest terrestrial competitors (Table 1). This is especially problematic when dealing with sulfur. In a free-living state, ßehemoth is theoretically capable of bottlenecking even that extremely common element; this is the primary ecological threat. ßehemoth is, however, more comfortable within the bodies of homeothermic vertebrates, which provide warm, stable, and nutrient-rich environments reminiscent of the primordial soup. ßehemoth enters the cell via receptor-mediated endocytosis; once inside it breaks down the phagosomal membrane prior to lysis, using a 532-amino listeriolysin analog. ßehemoth then competes with the host cell for nutrients. Host death can occur from any of a several dozen proximal causes including renal/hepatic failure, erythromytosis, CNS disorders, blood poisoning, and opportunistic infections.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Vertebrate hosts serve as reservoirs which periodically reinoculate the nanobe into the external environment, increasing the chance of self-sustaining outbreaks.</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>Diagnostics: Methionine labeling is effective in culture. Free-living ßehemoth in concentrations of greater than 1.35 billion/<span epub:type="z3998:roman">cc</span> exert detectable effects on soil pH, conductivity, porphyrin counts, and chlorophylls A and B (Table 2); the extent of these effects varies with baseline conditions. ßehemoth can be infered in asymptomatic patients by the presence of d-cysteine and d-cystine in the blood (unsuccessful attempts to cleave bound sulfur sometimes stereoisomerizes the molecule).</p>
				<p>Present Status: See Figure 3. 4,800km2 sterilized at last report. 426,000km2 under immediate threat.</p>
				<p>Ecological Trajectory: If current trends continue, present models suggest long-term competitive exclusion of all competing life forms between 62°N and S latitude, due to monopolization and transformation of nutrient base. Ultimate fate of polar components unknown at this time. Sensitivity analysis generates 95% confidence limits of 50 to 94 years for EL90.</p>
				<p>Recommendations: Continue ongoing efforts to alter present trajectory. Allocate Fallback Options budget as follows:</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Orbital: 25%</p>
			<p>Cheyenne: 5%</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism z3998:name-title">M.A.</abbr> Ridge: 50%</p>
			<p>Metamorph: 20%</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
