<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>The Algebra of Guilt</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter">
		<section id="chapter-2-14" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Algebra of Guilt</h2>
			<p>The naked ‚Äòlawbreaker was watching him with wary curiosity. Not much actual fear, Lubin noted. When you routinely juggled thousands of lives for a living, you probably figured that <i>other</i> people were the ones with cause to worry. Sudbury was a safe, law-abiding place. Wielding his godlike control <i>over</i> the real world, Desjardins had probably forgotten what it was like to actually live <i>in</i> it.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWho are you?‚Äù Desjardins asked.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúName‚Äôs Colin,‚Äù Lubin said.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúUh-huh. And why does Rowan have such a hard-on for testing my loyalty?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMaybe you didn‚Äôt hear me,‚Äù Lubin said. ‚ÄúYou‚Äôre immune to Guilt Trip.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI heard you. I just think you‚Äôre full of shit.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúReally.‚Äù Lubin laid the slightest emphasis on the word.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNice try, <i>Colin</i>, but I kind of keep up on that stuff.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI see.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDon‚Äôt get me wrong, I‚Äôm not saying it‚Äôs indestructible. Just off the top of my head I can think of a few commercial enzymes that break it down The right kind of reuptake inhibitor blockers could do the job too, I‚Äôm told. That‚Äôs why they have these tests, you see? That‚Äôs why I can barely go two days without some bloodhound sniffing my crotch. Believe me, if I was immune to Guilt Trip I‚Äôd already know it, and so would every security database up to geosynch. And you know, the really <i>odd</i> thing about this is that Rowan must <i>know</i> that alread‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>He never had a chance to move. Lubin was behind him in the space of a syllable, had one arm locked around his throat in two. The long curved needle in his other hand tickled Desjardins‚Äôs eardrum suggestively.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou have three seconds to tell me what it‚Äôs called,‚Äù Lubin whispered, relaxing his grip just enough to permit some semblance of speech.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBehemoth,‚Äù Desjardins gasped.</p>
			<p>Lubin tightened his grip again. ‚ÄúPlace of origin. Two seconds.‚Äù Relaxed it.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDeep sea! Juan de Fuca, Channer Vent I thin‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWorst-case scenario. One.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúEverything <i>dies</i>, for fuck‚Äôs sake! <i>Everything just fades away‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶</i>‚Äù</p>
			<p>Lubin let him go.</p>
			<p>Desjardins staggered forward against the sink, gulping air. Lubin could see his face reflected in the mirror: panic subsiding, the higher brain kicking in, reassessment of threat potential, dawning awareness of‚ÅÝ‚Äî</p>
			<p>Three breaches he‚Äôd just committed. Three violations when Guilt Trip should have risen from within and throttled him even more tightly than Lubin just had‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶</p>
			<p>Achilles Desjardins turned and faced Lubin with horror and fear spreading across his face.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMaudite <i>marde</i>‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI told you, ‚Äù Lubin said. ‚ÄúYou‚Äôre a free agent. <i>Vive le gardien libre.</i>‚Äù</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>‚ÄúHow‚Äôd you do it?‚Äù Desjardins slumped morosely on the couch next to his clothes. ‚ÄúMore to the point, <i>why</i>? The next time I show up for work I‚Äôm screwed. Rowan knows that. What‚Äôs she trying to prove?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôm not here for Rowan,‚Äù Lubin said. ‚ÄúRowan‚Äôs the problem, in fact. I‚Äôm here on behalf of her superiors.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYeah?‚Äù Desjardins actually seemed to approve of that. Not surprising. Patricia Rowan had never exactly endeared herself to the lower ranks.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThere are concerns that some of the information we‚Äôve received from her office has been tainted,‚Äù Lubin continued. ‚ÄúI‚Äôm here to cut out the middleman and get the unadulterated truth. You‚Äôre going to help me.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd I‚Äôm not much good to you if my brain seizes up every time you ask a touchy question.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Desjardins began getting dressed. ‚ÄúWhy not just go through channels? GT won‚Äôt raise a peep if I know the orders are coming from higher up the food chain.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúRowan would peep.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh. Right.‚Äù Desjardins pulled his shirt on over his head. ‚ÄúSo tell me if I‚Äôve got this down: you ask me a bunch of questions, and if I don‚Äôt answer them to the best of my ability you stick a needle in my ear. If I do, you let me go and the next time I go to work I set off more sirens than I can count. They take me apart piece by piece to find out what went wrong, and if I‚Äôm very very lucky they‚Äôll just throw me into the street as a security risk. Is that about right?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNot exactly,‚Äù Lubin said.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat, then?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôm not the snuff fairy,‚Äù Lubin said. In fact, that was exactly what someone had called him, nearly two years before. ‚ÄúI don‚Äôt leap gaily from door to door killing people for no good reason. And you‚Äôre going to do more than answer a few questions for me. You‚Äôre going to take me to work and show me your files.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNot after‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>Lubin held up a derm between thumb and forefinger. ‚ÄúTrip analog. Short-lived and fairly inert, but it looks pretty much the same to a bloodhound. Stick it under your tongue fifteen minutes before getting to work and you‚Äôll pass the tests. If you cooperate, no one will know the difference.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúUntil you bugger off and take your analog with you.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou‚Äôre forgetting how Guilt Trip works, Desjardins. Your own cells are producing the stuff. I haven‚Äôt stopped that. I‚Äôve just dosed you with something to break down the finished product before it hits your motor nerves. Eventually it‚Äôll get used up and you‚Äôll be a happy little slave again.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHow long?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWeek or ten days. Depends on individual metabolism. Even if I do bugger off, you could always just call in sick until it wears off.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI can‚Äôt, and you know it. I got my immunes boosted when I joined the Patrol. I‚Äôm even immune to Supercol.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Lubin shrugged. ‚ÄúThen you‚Äôll just have to trust me.‚Äù</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>It fact, it had been lies from the word go.</p>
			<p>Lubin had not freed Achilles Desjardins. He‚Äôd merely stumbled on the discovery as they both lay on the floor, disconnected from themselves and strangely linked to each other through a mechanical interrogator. The derm he‚Äôd presented had been an acetylcholine booster, a memory aid one step removed from candy. His words had been spun on the fly, woven around the ‚Äòlawbreaker‚Äôs reactions in the Ganzfeld: Rowan, yes. Strong reaction there. No reaction to rifter names, but horror and recognition at the thought of earthquakes and tidal waves and mysterious fires.</p>
			<p>Desjardins had pursued the truth, and recoiled from it. He had not set any of the larger wheels in motion. As far as Lubin could tell, he didn‚Äôt even know how many wheels there were.</p>
			<p>He hadn‚Äôt known that he was immune to Guilt Trip, either. That was especially interesting. Desjardins had been right‚ÅÝ‚Äîit would be impossible to avoid one of CSIRA‚Äôs spot checks for more than a day or two. So barring the unlikely possibility that Desjardins had acquired his immunity within the past few hours, his body had done a lot more than throw off GT; it had managed to hide that fact from the bloodhounds.</p>
			<p>Lubin had not realized that freedom from Guilt Trip was possible. It raised certain prospects he had not previously considered.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
