<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Bang</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-1-9" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Bang</h3>
			<p>For Lenie Clarke, the choice between sharks and humans was not as easy as it might have been. Making it, she paid another price: she missed the darkness.</p>
			<p>Night, no matter how moonless and overcast, was no match for eyecaps. There weren’t many places on earth dark enough to blind them. Light-sealed rooms, of course. Deep caves and the deep sea, at least those parts free of bioluminescence. Nowhere else. Her caps doomed her to vision.</p>
			<p>She could always remove them, of course. Easy enough to do, hardly different from popping out a pair of contact lenses. She vaguely remembered the look of her naked eyes; they were pale blue, so pale the irises almost got lost in the whites. Sort of like looking into sea ice. She’d been told her eyes were cold, and sexy.</p>
			<p>She hadn’t taken her caps out for almost a year. She’d kept them on in front of people she’d fought against, fought for, fucked over. She hadn’t even taken them off during sex. She wasn’t about to strip now, in front of strangers.</p>
			<p>If it was darkness she was after, she’d have to close her eyes. Surrounded by a million refugees, that wasn’t the easiest thing to do either.</p>
			<p>She found a few square meters of emptiness. Refugees huddled under blankets and lean-tos nearby, slept or fucked in darkness that must have afforded some cover to their eyes, at least. They’d pretty much left her alone, as Amitav had said they would. In fact, they accorded her considerably more space than they granted each other. She lay back in her little patch of sand, her <i>territory</i>, and closed her eyes against the brilliant darkness. A soft rain was falling; the diveskin numbed her body to it, but she could feel it on her face. It was almost a caress.</p>
			<p>She drifted. She imagined she must have slept at some point, but her eyes happened to be open on two occasions when botflies passed quietly overhead, dark ellipses backlit by a brightness too faint for naked eyes. Each time she tensed, ready to flee into the ocean, but the drones took no notice of her.</p>
			<p><i>No initiative</i>, she reflected. <i>They don’t see anything they’re not programmed to look for.</i> Or perhaps their senses weren’t as finely-tuned as she’d feared. Perhaps they just couldn’t see her implants; maybe her aura was too faint, or too far away. Maybe botflies didn’t see as deeply into the EM spectrum as she’d feared.</p>
			<p><i>I was all alone, that first time</i>, she thought. <i>The whole beach was closed off. I bet that’s it. They pay attention to trespassers⁠ ⁠…</i></p>
			<p>So did Amitav, evidently. That was shaping up to be a problem.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>He appeared at the cycler the next morning with a dead botfly in his arms. It looked a bit like a turtle shell she’d once seen in a museum, except for the vents and instruments studding the ventral surface. It was split along its equatorial seam; black smudges lined the breach.</p>
			<p>“Can you fix this?” Amitav asked. “Any of it?”</p>
			<p>Clarke shook her head. “Don’t know anything about botflies.” She lifted the carapace anyway. Inside, burned electronics nested under a layer of soot.</p>
			<p>She ran one thumb along a small pebbled convexity, felt the compound lenses of a visual cluster beneath the grime. Some of the tech was vaguely familiar, but⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p>“No,” she said, setting it on the sand. “Sorry.”</p>
			<p>Amitav shrugged and sat, cross-legged. “I did not expect so,” he said. “But one can always hope, and you seem to have such familiarity with machines yourself⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>She smiled faintly, freshly aware of the implants crowding her thorax.</p>
			<p>“I expect you will be going to the fence,” Amitav said after a moment. “Your people will let you through when they see you are one of them.”</p>
			<p>She looked to the east. Off in the distance, the border towers rose from a fog of human bodies and trampled scrub. She’d heard about the high-voltage lines and the razorwire strung between them. She’d heard other things, too, about refugees so driven by their own desperation they’d climbed seven or eight meters before the juice and their own cumulative dismemberment had killed them off. Their lacerated remains were left rotting on the wires, the story went⁠—whether as an act of deterrence or simple neglect was unclear.</p>
			<p>Clarke knew it was all just alligator tales. Nobody over thirteen believed such bullshit, and the people here⁠—for all their numbers⁠—didn’t seem motivated enough to hold a garage sale, much less storm the battlements. What was the word Amitav had used?</p>
			<p><i>Docile</i>.</p>
			<p>In a way it was a shame, though. She’d never actually been to the fences. It might have been interesting to check them out.</p>
			<p>Being dead had all sorts of little drawbacks.</p>
			<p>“Surely you have a home to go to. Surely you do not wish to stay <i>here</i>,” Amitav prodded.</p>
			<p>“No,” she said to both questions.</p>
			<p>He waited. She waited with him.</p>
			<p>Finally, he stood and glanced down at the dead botfly. “I do not know what made this one crash. Usually they work quite well. I believe you’ve already seen one or two pass by, yes? Your eyes may be empty, but they are not blind.”</p>
			<p>Clarke held his gaze and said nothing.</p>
			<p>He nudged the little wreck with his toe. “These are not blind either,” he said, and walked away.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>It was a hole in darkness: a window to another world. It was set at the height of a child’s eyes, and it looked into a kitchen she’d not seen in twenty years.</p>
			<p>Onto a person she hadn’t seen in almost that long.</p>
			<p>Her father knelt in front of her, folded down from adult height to regard her eye-to-eye. He had a serious look on his face. He grasped her wrist with one hand; something dangled in the other.</p>
			<p>She waited for the familiar sickness to rise in her throat, but it didn’t come. The vision was a child’s; the viewer was an adult, hardened, adapted, accustomed by now to trials that reduced child-abuse from nightmare down to trite cliché.</p>
			<p>She tried to look around; her field of view refused to change. She could not see her mother.</p>
			<p>
				<i>Par for the course.</i>
			</p>
			<p>Her father’s mouth moved; no words came out. The image was utterly silent, a plague of light with no soundtrack.</p>
			<p>
				<i>This is a dream. A boring dream. Time to wake up.</i>
			</p>
			<p>She opened her eyes. The dream didn’t stop.</p>
			<p>There was a different world behind it, though, a high-contrast jigsaw of photoamplified light and shadow. Someone stood before her on the sand, but the face was eclipsed by this vision from her childhood. It floated in front of her, an impossible picture-in-picture. The present glimmered faintly through from behind.</p>
			<p>She closed her eyes. The present vanished. The past didn’t.</p>
			<p>
				<i>Go away. I’m done with you. Go away.</i>
			</p>
			<p>Her father still held her wrist⁠—at least, he held the wrist of the fragile creature whose eyes she was using⁠—but she felt nothing. And now those eyes focused autonomously on the dangling thing in her father’s other hand. Suddenly frightened, she snapped her own eyes back open before she could see what it was; but once again the image followed her into the real world.</p>
			<p>Here, before the destitute numberless hordes of the Strip, her father was holding out a gift for Lenie Clarke. Her first wristwatch.</p>
			<p>
				<i>Please go away⁠ ⁠…</i>
			</p>
			<p>“No,” said a voice, very close by. “I am not.”</p>
			<p>Amitav’s voice. Lenie Clarke, transfixed, made a small animal noise.</p>
			<p>Her father was explaining the functions of her new toy. She couldn’t hear what he was saying, but it didn’t matter; she could see him voiceact’ing the little gadget, stepping through its Net Access functions (they’d called it <i>the Net</i> back then, she remembered), pointing out the tiny antennae that linked to the eyephones⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p>She shook her head. The image didn’t waver. Her father was pulling her forward, extending her arm, carefully looping the watch around her wrist.</p>
			<p>She knew it wasn’t really a gift. It was a down payment. It was a token offered in exchange, some half-assed gesture that was supposed to make up for the things he’d done to her all those years ago, the things he was going to do <i>right now</i>, the things⁠—</p>
			<p>Her father leaned forward and kissed some spot just above the eyes that Lenie Clarke couldn’t shut. He patted the head that Lenie Clarke couldn’t feel. And then, smiling⁠—</p>
			<p>He left her alone.</p>
			<p>He moved back down the hall, out of the kitchen, leaving her to play.</p>
			<p>The vision dissipated. The Strip rushed in to fill the hole.</p>
			<p>Amitav glowered down at her. “You are mistaken,” he said. “I am not your father.”</p>
			<p>She scrambled to her feet. The ground was muddy and saturated, close to the waterline. Halogen light stretched in broken strips from the station up the beach. Bundled motionless bodies lay scattered on the upper reaches of that slope. None were nearby.</p>
			<p>
				<i>It was a dream. Another⁠—hallucination. Nothing real.</i>
			</p>
			<p>“I am wondering what you are doing here,” Amitav said quietly.</p>
			<p>
				<i>Amitav’s real. Focus. Deal with him.</i>
			</p>
			<p>“You are not the only⁠—person to have washed up afterward, of course,” the refugee remarked. “They wash up even now. But you are much less dead than the others.”</p>
			<p><i>You should’ve seen me before</i>.</p>
			<p>“And it is odd that you would come to us like this. All of this was swept clean many days ago. An earthquake on the bottom of the ocean, yes? Far out to sea. And here you are, built for the deep ocean, and now you come ashore and eat as if you have not eaten for days.” His smile was a predatory thing. “And you do not wish your people to know that you are here. You will tell me why.”</p>
			<p>Clarke leaned forward. “Really. Or you’ll do what, exactly?”</p>
			<p>“I will walk to the fence and tell them.”</p>
			<p>“Start walking,” Clarke said.</p>
			<p>Amitav stared at her, his anger almost palpable.</p>
			<p>“Go on,” she prodded. “See if you can find a door, or a spare watch. Maybe they’ve left little suggestion boxes for you to pass notes into, hmm?”</p>
			<p>“You are quite wrong if you think I could not attract the attention of your people.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t think you really want to. You’ve got your own secrets.”</p>
			<p>“I am a refugee. We cannot afford secrets.”</p>
			<p>“Really. Why are you so skinny, Amitav?”</p>
			<p>His eyes widened.</p>
			<p>“Tapeworm? Eating disorder?” She stepped forward. “Cycler food not agree with you?”</p>
			<p>“I hate you,” he hissed.</p>
			<p>“You don’t even know me.”</p>
			<p>“I know you,” he spat. “I know your <i>people</i>. I know⁠—”</p>
			<p>“You don’t know shit. If you did⁠—if you <i>really</i> had such a hard-on for <i>my people</i> as you call them⁠—you’d be bending over backwards to <i>help</i> me.”</p>
			<p>He stared at her, a flicker of uncertainty on his face.</p>
			<p>She kept her voice low. “Suppose you’re right, Amitav. Suppose I’ve come all the way up from the deep sea. The Axial Volcano, even, if you know where that is.”</p>
			<p>She waited. “Go on,” he said.</p>
			<p>“Let’s also say, hypothetically, that the quake was no accident. Someone set off a nuke and all those shockwaves just sort of daisy-chained their way back to the coast.”</p>
			<p>“And why would anyone do such a thing?”</p>
			<p>“Theirs to know. Ours to find out.”</p>
			<p>Amitav was silent.</p>
			<p>“With me so far? Bomb goes off in the deep sea. I come from the deep sea. What does that make me, Amitav? Am I the bad guy here? Did I trip the switch, and if I did, wouldn’t I at least have planned a better escape than swimming across three hundred kilometers of fucking mud, without so much as a fucking sandwich, <i>only to crawl up onto your fucking Strip after a fucking week to get stuck listening to your fucking whining?</i> Does that make <i>any sense at all</i>?</p>
			<p>“Or,”⁠—the voice leveling now, coming back under control⁠—“did I just get screwed like everyone else, only I managed to get out alive? That might be enough to inspire a bit of ill-will even in a white N’AmPac have-it-all bitch like myself, don’t you think?”</p>
			<p><i>And somebody</i>, she promised herself, <i>is going to pay.</i></p>
			<p>Amitav said nothing. He watched her with his sunken eyes, his expression gone blank and unfathomable once more.</p>
			<p>Clarke sighed. “Do you really want to fuck with me, Amitav? Do you want to fuck with the people who <i>did</i> hit the switch? They don’t exactly have a light touch when it comes to cleaning up their messes. Right now they think I’m dead. Do you want to be around me when they find I’m not?”</p>
			<p>“And what is it about you,” Amitav said at last, “that makes <i>our</i> lives so unimportant?”</p>
			<p>She’d thought a lot about that. It had led her back to a bright shining moment of discovery she’d had as a child. She’d been astonished to learn that there was life on the moon: microscopic life, some kind of bacterium that had hitched a ride with the first unmanned probes. It had survived years of starvation in hard vacuum, frozen, boiled, pelted by an unending sleet of hard radiation.</p>
			<p>Life, she’d learned, could survive anything. At the time it had been cause for hope.</p>
			<p>“I think that maybe there’s something inside me,” she said now. “I think⁠—”</p>
			<p>Something brushed against her leg.</p>
			<p>Her arm lashed out reflexively. Her fist clenched around the wrist of a young boy.</p>
			<p>He’d been going for the gas billy on her calf.</p>
			<p>“Ah,” Clarke said. “Of course.”</p>
			<p>The boy stared back at her, petrified.</p>
			<p>She turned back to Amitav; the child whimpered and squirmed in her grip. “Friend of yours?”</p>
			<p>“I, ah⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Little diversionary tactic, perhaps? You don’t have the balls to take me on, and none of your grown-up buddies will help out, so you use a fucking <i>child</i>?” She yanked on the small arm: the boy yelped.</p>
			<p>Sleepers stirred in the distance, used to chronic disturbance. None seemed to fully awaken.</p>
			<p>“Why should you care?” Amitav hissed. “It is not a weapon, you said so yourself. Am I a fool, to believe such claims when you come here waving it like an ataghan? What is it? A shockprod?”</p>
			<p>“I’ll show you,” she said.</p>
			<p>She bent, still gripping the child. A depolarizing blade protruded from the tip of her glove like a gray fingernail; at its touch, the sheath on her calf split as if scalpeled. The billy slid easily into her grip, a blunt ebony rod with a fluorescent band at the base of the handgrip.</p>
			<p>Amitav raised his hands, suddenly placating. “There is no need⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Ah, but there is. Come in close, now.”</p>
			<p>Amitav took a step back.</p>
			<p>“It works on contact,” Clarke said. “Injects compressed gas. Comes in handy down on the rift, when the wildlife tries to eat you.”</p>
			<p>She thumbed the safety on the billy, jammed the rod point-down into the sand.</p>
			<p>With a crack like the inside of a thunderclap, the beach exploded.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>The universe rang like a tuning fork. She lay where the blast had thrown her. Her face stung as though sandblasted.</p>
			<p>Her eyelids were clenched. It seemed like a very long time before she could open them again.</p>
			<p>A crater yawned across three meters of sand, filling with groundwater.</p>
			<p>She climbed to her feet. The Strip had leapt awake in an instant, fled outward, turned back and congealed into a ring of shocked and frightened faces.</p>
			<p>Amazingly, she was still holding the billy.</p>
			<p>She eyed the device with numb incredulity. She’d used it more times than she could count. Whenever one of Channer Vent’s monsters had tried to take her apart she’d parried, jammed the billy home, watched as one more predator bloated and burst at her touch. It had been lethal enough to the fish, but it had never exploded with <i>this</i> kind of force before. Not down on the⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p>
				<i>Oh, shit. On the Rift.</i>
			</p>
			<p>It had been calibrated to deliver a lethal charge at the bottom of the ocean, where five thousand PSI was a gentle burp. Down there it had been a reasonably effective weapon.</p>
			<p>At sea level, without all those atmospheres pushing back, it was a bomb.</p>
			<p>“I didn’t mean⁠—I thought⁠ ⁠…” Clarke looked around. An endless line of faces looked back.</p>
			<p>Amitav lay sprawled on the opposite side of the crater. He moaned, brought one hand to his face.</p>
			<p>There was no sign of the boy.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
