<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Sparkler</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-2" id="chapter-2-20" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Sparkler</h3>
			<p>Every eye in the world, turning as she passed.</p>
			<p>It had to be her imagination, Clarke knew. If she was really under such close scrutiny, surely she‚Äôd have been captured‚ÅÝ‚Äîor worse‚ÅÝ‚Äîby now. The botflies that passed over the street weren‚Äôt <i>all</i> watching from the corners of their eyes. The cameras that panned across every rapitrans stop, every cafeteria, every display window‚ÅÝ‚Äîunseen, perhaps, but omnipresent‚ÅÝ‚Äîthey couldn‚Äôt all have been programmed with her in mind. Satellites didn‚Äôt crowd the sky overhead, piercing the clouds with radar and infrared, looking for her.</p>
			<p>It just felt that way, somehow. Not like being the center of some vast conspiracy at all. Rather, the <i>target</i>.</p>
			<p>Yankton was open to casual traffic. The shuttle dropped her in a retail district indistinguishable from a million others; her connection wouldn‚Äôt leave for another two hours. She wandered to fill the time between. Twice she startled‚ÅÝ‚Äîthinking she‚Äôd caught sight of herself in some full-length mirror‚ÅÝ‚Äîonly to remember that these days, she looked just like any dryback.</p>
			<p>Except for the ones that were starting to look like her.</p>
			<p>She ate a tasteless soy-krill concoction from a convenient vending machine. The phone in her visor beeped occasionally. She ignored it. The crazies, the propositioners, the death threateners‚ÅÝ‚Äîthose had stopped calling over the past few days. The puppet masters‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhoever or whatever had stolen her name and pasted it onto so many different faces‚ÅÝ‚Äîseemed to have given up on matchmaking across the spectrum. They‚Äôd settled on a single type by now: the kicked dogs, desperate for purpose, evidently blind to the fact that their own neediness far outweighed hers. That Sou-<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Hon.</abbr>¬Ýwoman, for instance.</p>
			<p>Her visor beeped again. She muted it.</p>
			<p>It was only a matter of time, she supposed, before the puppet masters figured out how to hack the visor the same way they‚Äôd hacked her watch. She was actually kind of surprised that they hadn‚Äôt done so already.</p>
			<p><i>Maybe they have</i>. <i>Maybe they can break in on me any time, but they took the hint when I smashed the watch. Maybe they just don‚Äôt want to risk losing their last link.</i></p>
			<p>
				<i>I should toss the fucking thing anyway.</i>
			</p>
			<p>She didn‚Äôt. The visor was her only connection to Maelstrom, now that her watch was gone. She really missed the backdoor access those South-Bend kids had wired into that little gizmo. In contrast, the visor‚ÅÝ‚Äîoff-the-shelf and completely legal‚ÅÝ‚Äîwas hamstrung by all the usual curfews and access restrictions. Still. The only <i>other</i> way to find out about a late-breaking quarantine or a nest of tornadoes was to run into it.</p>
			<p>Besides, the visor hid her eyes.</p>
			<p>Only now it seemed to be fucking up. The tactical display, usually invisible but for the little maps and labels and retail logos it laid across her eyeballs, seemed to be <i>shimmering</i> somehow, a faint visual static like water in motion. Hints of outlines, of faces, of‚ÅÝ‚Äî</p>
			<p>She squeezed her eyes tight in sheer frustration. Not that it ever helped: the vision persisted behind her lids, showing her‚ÅÝ‚Äîthis time‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe upper half of her mother‚Äôs face, brow furrowed in concern. Mom‚Äôs nose and mouth were covered by one of those filtermasks you wore whenever you visited the hospital, so the superbugs wouldn‚Äôt get you. They were in a hospital now, Clarke could tell: she, and her mother, and‚ÅÝ‚Äî</p>
			<p>
				<i>Of course. Who else?</i>
			</p>
			<p>‚Äîdear old Dad, also masked; on him, it seemed to fit. And she could almost remember, this time, she almost knew what she was seeing‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut there was no trace of guilt behind that mask, no sign of worry that <i>this</i> time it would all come out, the doctors would know, some telltale symptom shouting <i>no, no accident this, no mere fall down the stairs</i>‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶</p>
			<p>No. The monster‚Äôs loving facade was too perfect. It always was. She‚Äôd lost count of the times such images had raped her in the past months, how often she‚Äôd looked for some hint of the living hell she‚Äôd called childhood. All she‚Äôd ever seen was this vicious, mocking pretense of normalcy.</p>
			<p>After a while, as always, the images shrank away and let the real world back in. By now she was almost used to it; she no longer shouted at apparitions, or reached out to touch things that didn‚Äôt exist. Her breathing was under control. She knew that to all the world around her, nothing had happened; a visored woman in a food court had paused at her meal for a few moments. That was all. The only person who heard the blood pounding in her ears was Lenie Clarke.</p>
			<p>But Lenie Clarke was nowhere near liking it yet.</p>
			<p>A row of medbooths across the concourse advertised reasonable rates and <i>path scans updated weekly!</i> She‚Äôd avoided such temptations ever since the booth at Calgary had begged her to stay; but that had been a dozen lies ago. Now she abandoned her table and moved through the patchy crowd, navigating the widest spaces. People bumped into her anyway, here and there‚ÅÝ‚Äîsomehow, it was getting harder to avoid contact. The crowd seemed to be thickening almost by the minute.</p>
			<p>And far too many of them had capped eyes.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>The medbooth was almost as spacious as her quarters at Beebe.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMinor deficiencies in calcium and trace sulfur,‚Äù it reported. ‚ÄúElevated serotonin and adrenocorticoid hormones; elevated platelet and antibody counts consistent with moderate physical injury within the past three weeks. Not life-threatening.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Clarke rubbed her shoulder. By now it only ached when reminded to. Even the bruises on her face were fading.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnomalously high levels of cellular metabolites.‚Äù Biomedical details flickered across the main display. ‚ÄúDepressed lactates. Your basal metabolic rate is unusually high. This isn‚Äôt immediately dangerous, but over time it can increase wear on body parts and significantly reduce lifespan. RNA and serotonin syn‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAny diseases?‚Äù Clarke said, cutting to the chase.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAll pathogen counts are within safe ranges. Would you like me to run farther tests?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYeah.‚Äù She took the NMR helmet from its hook and fitted it over her head. ‚ÄúBrain scan.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAre you experiencing specific symptoms?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôm having‚ÅÝ‚Äîhallucinations,‚Äù she said. ‚ÄúVision only‚ÅÝ‚Äînot sound or smell or anything. Picture-in-picture, I can still see around the edges, but‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶‚Äù</p>
			<p>The booth waited. When Clarke said nothing farther it began humming quietly to itself. A luminous three-d outline of a human brain began rotating on the screen, filling piecemeal with fragments of color.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou have difficulty forming social bonds,‚Äù the medbooth remarked.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat? Why do you say that?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou have a chronic oxytocin deficiency. This is a treatable disorder, however. I can prescribe‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúForget it,‚Äù Clarke said. <i>Since when did personality become a ‚Äútreatable disorder‚Äù?</i></p>
			<p>‚ÄúYour dopamine receptor sites are abnormally prolific. Do you, on average, use opioids or endorphin-amplifiers more than twice a week?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúLook, forget that stuff. Just work on the hallucinations.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The booth fell silent. Clarke closed her eyes. <i>All I need. Some bloody machine counting up my masochism molecules‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶</i></p>
			<p>Beep.</p>
			<p>Clarke opened her eyes. On the display, a dusting of violet stars had been sprinkled across the floor of the cerebral hemispheres. A tiny red dot pulsed somewhere near their center.</p>
			<p><i>Anomaly</i> flashed in one corner of the screen.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat? What is it?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúProcessing. Please be patient.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The booth etched a line along the bottom of the display: <i>VAC Area 19</i>, it said.</p>
			<p>Another beep. Another flashing red pinpoint, farther forward.</p>
			<p>Another line: <i>Brodman Area 37</i>.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat are those red spots?‚Äù Clarke said.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThose parts of the brain are involved in vision,‚Äù the booth told her. ‚ÄúMay I lower the helmet visor to examine your eyes?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôm wearing eyecaps.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCorneal overlays will not interfere with the scan. May I proceed?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOkay.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The visor slid down. A grid of tiny bumps stippled its inner surface. The humming of the machine resonated deep in her skull. Clarke began counting to herself. She‚Äôd endured twenty-two seconds when the visor withdrew into its sheath.</p>
			<p>Just under <i>Brodman Area 37</i>: <i>Ret/Mac OK</i>.</p>
			<p>The humming stopped.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou may remove the helmet,‚Äù the booth advised. ‚ÄúWhat is your chronological age?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThirty-two.‚Äù She hung the helmet on its peg.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDid your visual environment change substantially between eight and sixteen weeks ago?‚Äù</p>
			<p>A year spent in the photoenhanced twilight of Channer Vent. A blind crawl along the floor of the Pacific. And then, suddenly, bright sky‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes. Maybe.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDoes your family have a history of strokes or embolisms?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI don‚Äôt know.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHas anyone close to you died recently?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHas anyone close to you died recently?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Her jaw clenched. ‚Äú<i>Everyone</i> close to me has died recently.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHave you been exposed to changes in ambient pressure within the past two months? For example, have you spent time in an orbital facility, an unpressurized aircraft, or been free-diving below a depth of twenty meters?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes. Diving.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhile diving, did you undergo decompression protocols?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat was your maximum dive depth, and how long did you spend there?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Clarke smiled. ‚ÄúThree thousand four hundred meters. One year.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The booth fell silent for a moment. Then: ‚ÄúPeople can not survive direct ascent from such depths without undergoing decompression. What was your maximum dive depth, and how long did you spend there?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI didn‚Äôt have to decompress,‚Äù Clarke explained. ‚ÄúI didn‚Äôt breathe during the dive, everything was elect‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>
				<i>Wait a minute‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶</i>
			</p>
			<p>No decompression, she‚Äôd said.</p>
			<p>Of course not. Let the surface-skimming tourists breathe from their clunky tanks, risking narcosis or the bends whenever they ventured too far from the surface. Let <i>them</i> suffer nightmares of exploding lungs and eyes marbling into clusters of fleshy bubbles. Rifters were immune to such worries. Inside Beebe Station, Lenie Clarke had breathed at sea-level; outside, she hadn‚Äôt breathed at all.</p>
			<p>Except once, when she‚Äôd been shot out of the sky.</p>
			<p>On that day <i>Forcipiger</i> had fallen slowly through a dark spectrum, green to blue to final lightless black, bleeding atmosphere from a thousand cuts. With each meter a little more of the ocean had forced its way in, squeezed the atmosphere into a single high-pressure pocket.</p>
			<p>Joel hadn‚Äôt liked the sound of her vocoder. <i>I don‚Äôt want to spend my last few minutes listening to a machine voice,</i> he‚Äôd said<i>.</i> So she‚Äôd stayed with him, breathing. They must have been at thirty atmospheres by the time he‚Äôd popped the hatch, cold and scared and sick of waiting to die.</p>
			<p>And she had come ashore, raging.</p>
			<p>It had taken days. Her ascent along the seabed would have been gradual enough to decompress naturally, the gas in her blood easing gently across the alveolar membranes‚ÅÝ‚Äîif her remaining lung had been in use at the time. It hadn‚Äôt been: so what had happened to those last high-pressure remnants of <i>Forcipiger‚Äôs</i> atmosphere in her bloodstream? The fact that she was still alive proved that they weren‚Äôt still within her.</p>
			<p>Gas exchange isn‚Äôt limited to the lungs, she remembered. The skin breathes. The GI tract breathes. Not as fast as a set of lungs would, of course. Not as efficiently.</p>
			<p>Maybe not quite efficiently <i>enough</i>‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat‚Äôs wrong with me?‚Äù she asked quietly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou have recently suffered two small embolisms in your brain which intermittently impair your vision,‚Äù the medbooth said. ‚ÄúYour brain likely compensates for these gaps with stored images, although I would have to observe an episode in progress to be certain. You have also recently lost someone close to you; bereavement can be a factor in triggering visual-release hall‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat do you mean, stored images? Are you saying these are <i>memories</i>?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes,‚Äù the machine replied.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat‚Äôs bullshit.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWe‚Äôre sorry you feel that way.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut they never <i>happened,</i> okay?‚Äù <i>Shit-for-brains machine, why am I even arguing with it?</i> ‚ÄúI remember my own <i>childhood</i>, for fuck‚Äôs sake. I couldn‚Äôt forget it if I <i>tried</i>. And these visions, they were someone <i>else‚Äôs</i>, they were‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚Äî<i>happy</i>‚ÅÝ‚Äî</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚ÅÝ‚Äîthey were different. <i>Completely</i> different.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúLong-term memories are frequently unreliable. They‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúShut up,‚Äù she snapped. ‚ÄúJust fix it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThis booth is not equipped for microsurgery. I can give you Ondansetron to suppress the symptoms. You should be aware, though, that patients with extensive synaptic rewiring may experience side effects such as mild dizziness‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>She froze. <i>Rewiring?</i></p>
			<p>‚Äú‚ÅÝ‚Äîdouble vision, halo effects‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúStop,‚Äù she said. The booth fell silent.</p>
			<p>On the display, that cloud of violet stars sparkled enigmatically along the floor of her brain.</p>
			<p>She touched it. ‚ÄúWhat are these?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúA series of surgical lesions and associated infarctions,‚Äù the booth replied.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHow many?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSeven thousand four hundred eighty three.‚Äù</p>
			<p>She took a breath, felt distant amazement at how steady it felt. ‚ÄúYou‚Äôre saying someone cut into my brain <i>seven thousand four hundred and eighty-three times?</i>‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThere‚Äôs no evidence of physical penetration. The lesions are consistent with deep-focus microwave bursts.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚Äú<i>Why didn‚Äôt you tell me before?</i>‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou asked me to ignore subjects irrelevant to your hallucinations.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd these‚ÅÝ‚Äîthese <i>lesions</i> don‚Äôt have anything to do with that?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThey do not.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHow do you know?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMost of the lesions are not located within the visual pathways. The others act to block the transmission of images, not generate them.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhere are the lesions located?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThe lesions lie along pathways connecting the limbic system and the neocortex.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat are those pathways used for?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThose pathways are inactive. They have been interrupted by the surgical‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat <i>would</i> they be used for if they were active?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThe activation of long-term memories,‚Äù said the booth.</p>
			<p>
				<i>Oh God. Oh God.</i>
			</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIs there any other way we can be of service?‚Äù the booth asked after a while.</p>
			<p>Clarke swallowed. ‚ÄúHow‚ÅÝ‚Äîhow long ago were the lesions induced?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBetween ten and thirty-six months, depending on your mean metabolic rate since the procedure. This is an approximation based upon subsequent scarring and capillary growth.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCould such an operation take place without the patient‚Äôs knowledge?‚Äù</p>
			<p>A pause. ‚ÄúI don‚Äôt know how to answer that question.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCould it take place without anesthetic?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCould it take place while the patient was asleep?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWould the patient feel the lesions forming?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCould the equipment for such a procedure be housed within, say, an NMR helmet?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI don‚Äôt know,‚Äù the booth admitted.</p>
			<p>Beebe‚Äôs medical cubby had had an NMR. She‚Äôd used it occasionally, when she‚Äôd cracked her head during combat with Channer‚Äôs wildlife. No lesions had appeared on her printout then. Maybe they didn‚Äôt show up on the default settings she‚Äôd used, maybe you had to dial up a specific test or something first.</p>
			<p>Maybe someone had programmed Beebe‚Äôs scanner to lie.</p>
			<p>
				<i>When did it happen? What happened? What can‚Äôt I remember?</i>
			</p>
			<p>She was dimly aware of muffled sounds, distant and angry, rising from somewhere outside. They were irrelevant, they made no sense. Nothing made any sense. Her mind, luminous and transparent, rotated before her. Purple stars erupted from the medulla like a freeze-framed fountain, bright perfect droplets thrown high into the cortex and frozen at apogee. Bright thoughts. Memories, amputated and cauterized. They almost looked like some kind of free-form sculpture.</p>
			<p>Lies could be so beautiful in the telling.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
