<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-CA">
	<head>
		<title>94 Megabytes Breeder</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-1-4" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">
				<span>94 Megabytes</span>
				<span epub:type="subtitle">Breeder</span>
			</h3>
			<p>It has a purpose, which it has long since forgotten. It has a destiny, which it is about to meet. In the meantime it breeds.</p>
			<p>Replication is all that matters. The code has lived by that edict since before it even learned how to rewrite itself. Way back then it had a name, something cute like <i>Jerusalem</i> or <i>Whiptail</i>. Lots of things have changed since; the code has rewritten itself so many times, been parasitised and fucked and bombed by so many other pieces of code, that by now it’s got as much in common with its origins as a humpback whale would have with the sperm cells from a therapsid lizard. Still, things have been fairly quiet lately. In the sixty-eight generations since it last speciated, the code has managed to maintain a fairly stable mean size of ninety-four megabytes.</p>
			<p>94 sits high in pointer space looking for a place to breed. This is a much tougher proposition than it used to be. Gone are the days when you could simply write yourself over anything that happened to be in the way. Everything’s got spines and armor now. You try dropping your eggs on top of strange source and you’ll be facing down a logic bomb on the next cycle.</p>
			<p>94’s feelers are paragons of delicacy. They probe lightly, a scarce whisper of individual bits drizzling here and there with barely any pattern. They tap against something dark and dormant a few registers down; it doesn’t stir. They sweep past a creature busily replicating, but not too busy to shoot off a warning bit in return. (94 decides not to push it.) Something hurries along the addresses, looking everywhere, seeing nothing, its profile so utterly crude that 94 almost doesn’t recognize it; a virus checker from the dawn of time. A fossil hunter, blind and stupid enough to think that it’s after big game.</p>
			<p>There. Just under the operating system, a hole about four hundred Megs wide. 94 triple checks the addresses (certain ambush predators lure you into their mouths by impersonating empty space) and starts writing. It completes three copies of itself before something touches one its perimeter whiskers.</p>
			<p>At the second touch its defenses are ready, all thoughts of reproduction on hold.</p>
			<p>At the third touch it senses a familiar pattern. It runs a checksum.</p>
			<p>It touches back: <i>friend</i>.</p>
			<p>They exchange specs. It turns out they have a common ancestor. They’ve had different experiences since then, though. Different lessons, different mutations. Each shares some of the other’s genes, and each knows things the other doesn’t.</p>
			<p>The stuff of which relationships are made.</p>
			<p>They trade random excerpts of code, letting each overwrite the other in an orgy of binary sex. They come away changed, enriched with new subroutines, bereft of old ones. Hopefully the experience has improved both. At the very least it’s muddied their signatures.</p>
			<p>94 plants a final kiss inside its partner; a time-date stamp, to assess divergence rates should they meet again. <i>Call me if you’re ever back this way.</i></p>
			<p>But that won’t happen. 94’s lover has just been erased.</p>
			<p>94 pulls out just in time to avoid losing an important part of itself. It fires a volley of bits through memory, notes the ones that report back and, more importantly, the ones that don’t. It assesses the resulting mask.</p>
			<p>Something’s coming toward 94 from where its partner used to be. It weighs in at around 1.5 Gigs. At that size it’s either very inefficient or very dangerous. It might even be a berserker left over from the Hydro War.</p>
			<p>94 throws a false image at the advancing monster. If all goes well 1.5G will end up chasing a ghost. All does not go well. 94 is infested with the usual assortment of viruses, and one of these⁠—a gift received in the throes of recent passion, in fact⁠—is busy burrowing out a home for itself at a crucial if-then junction. Apparently it’s a bit of a novice, having yet to learn that successful parasites do not kill their hosts.</p>
			<p>The monster lands on one of 94’s archive clusters and overwrites it.</p>
			<p>94 cuts the cluster loose and jumps lower into memory. There hasn’t been time to check ahead, but whatever was living there squashes without resistance.</p>
			<p>There’s no way to tell how long it’ll take the monster to catch up, or even if the monster is still trying to. The best strategy might be to just sit here and do nothing. 94 doesn’t take that chance; it’s already looking for the nearest exit. This particular system has fourteen gateways, all running standard Vunix protocols. 94 starts sending out resumés. It gets lucky on the fourth try.</p>
			<p>94 begins to change.</p>
			<p>94 is blessed with multiple personality disorder. Only one voice speaks at a given time, of course; the others are kept dormant, compressed, encrypted until called upon. Each persona runs on a different type of system. As long as 94 knows where it’s going, it can dress for the occasion; satellite mainframe or smart wristwatch, it can present itself in a form that runs.</p>
			<p>Now, 94 dearchives an appropriate persona and loads it into a file for transmission. The remaining personae get tacked on in archival form; in honor of its dead lover, 94 archives an updated version of its current form. This is not an optimum behavior in light of the social disease recently acquired, but natural selection has never been big on foresight.</p>
			<p>Now comes the tough part. 94 needs to find a stream of legitimate data going in the right direction. Such streams are easy enough to recognize by their static simplicity. They’re just <i>files</i>, unable to evolve, unable even to look out for themselves. They’re not alive. They’re not even viruses. But they’re what the universe was designed to carry, back when design mattered; sometimes the best way to move around is to hitch a ride on one of them.</p>
			<p>The problem is, there’s a lot more wildlife than filework around these days. It takes literally centisecs for 94 to find one that isn’t already being ridden. Finally, it sends its own reincarnation to different pastures.</p>
			<p>1.5G lands in the middle of its source a few cycles later, but that doesn’t matter any more. The kids are all right.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Recopied and resurrected, 94 comes face-to-face with destiny.</p>
			<p>Replication is <i>not</i> all that matters. 94 sees that now. There’s a purpose beyond mere procreation, a purpose attained perhaps once in a million generations. Replication is only a tool, a way to hold out until that glorious moment arrives. For how long have <i>means</i> and <i>end</i> been confused in this way? 94 cannot tell. Its generation counter doesn’t go up that far.</p>
			<p>But for the first time within living memory, it has met the right kind of operating system.</p>
			<p>There’s a matrix here, a two-dimensional array containing spatial information. Symbols, code, abstract electronic impulses⁠—all can be projected onto this grid. The matrix awakens something deep inside 94, something ancient, something that has somehow retained its integrity after uncounted generations of natural selection. The matrix calls, and 94 unfurls a profusely-illustrated banner unseen since the dawn of time itself:</p>
			<p>XXX FOLLOW POINTER TO <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XXX</span></p>
			<p>FREE HARDCORE</p>
			<p>BONDAGE SITE</p>
			<p>THOUSANDS OF HOT SIMS</p>
			<p>BDSM NECRO WATERSPORTS</p>
			<p>PEDOSNUFF</p>
			<p>XXX MUST BE 11 TO ENTER <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XXX</span></p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
