<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-CA">
	<head>
		<title>TursiPops</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-3" id="chapter-3-5" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">TursiPops</h3>
			<p>She’d last been confirmed at Yankton. Sault Sainte Marie crouched at the eastern corner of Lake Superior. A straight line between those points cut through Lake Michigan.</p>
			<p>Ken Lubin knew exactly where to set up shop.</p>
			<p>The Great Lakes weren’t quite so great these days, not since the water shortages of the twenty-first century had reduced their volume by twenty-five percent. (Lubin supposed it was a small price to pay to avoid the water wars breaking out everywhere else on the planet.) Still. Lenie Clarke was a rifter; the lakes were still deep, and dark, and long. Directly en route, too. Any amphibian trying to elude capture would be crazy not to take a dip.</p>
			<p>Of course, any amphibian with more than a room-temperature IQ would also know that her enemies would be waiting for her.</p>
			<p>He stood four hundred meters above Lake Michigan’s southern reaches. An unbroken rim of industrial lakefront stretched around the horizon from Whiting to Evanston. Barely visible between land and water: the dark, broad bands of old mud that passed for shoreline wherever deep-water access wasn’t a priority.</p>
			<p>“Check the forecast lately?” It was Burton, the Afrikaaner, still pissed that Lubin had usurped his command in the name of global salvation. Holo light from the tabletop played along the line of his jaw.</p>
			<p>Lubin shook his head. The other man glanced through the wraparound pane of the lifter’s observation deck. Darkness was advancing overhead, as though someone were unrolling a great black rug across the sky. “Forecast’s up to eight, now. It’ll hit us in under an hour. If she can still breathe water, it’s going to come in handy even on shore.”</p>
			<p>Lubin grunted and ran a magged scan along the Chicago waterfront. Nothing of note there, of course. Ant-like civilians scuttling along under a morbid sky. <i>She could be down there right now. Any second one of those bugs could just jump off the breakwater right in front of me, and it’d all be over. Or more likely I wouldn’t even see it. All the troops, all the botflies, all the heavy equipment could just keep circling around here until the storm hits, and she’s safe and cold under a hundred and fifty meters of muddy water.</i></p>
			<p>“You’re sure she’s going to try it,” Burton said.</p>
			<p>Lubin tapped a panel on the table; the map zoomed back in scale, played false-color storm-front imagery across its airspace.</p>
			<p>“Even though she knows we’re in her way,” Burton continued.</p>
			<p>But they weren’t in her way, of course. They were still hanging in midair, waiting for a fix. There were just too many approaches, too much megapolitan jungle full of pipes and wires and RF signals where a single unique signature could stay endlessly anonymous. There were some places one could safely exclude, of course. Clarke would never be foolish enough to cross the mudflats⁠—a klick wide in some places⁠—that the lakes had abandoned when the water fell. She’d stay in industrialized areas, indoors or under cover, her signal swamped and her passage unnoticed.</p>
			<p>At least they knew she was in Chicago somewhere; a patrolling botfly had picked up a characteristic rifter EMission just that morning, then lost it around a corner. Another had picked up the scent through the front window of a Holiday Inn; cold, of course, by the time reinforcements arrived, but a playback on the lobby cameras hadn’t left much doubt. Lenie Clarke was in Chicago; Lubin had pulled back standbys from Cleveland to Detroit, brought them all into tight focus around the sightings.</p>
			<p>“You seem awfully certain, considering that whole mercury thing,” Burton remarked. “Have you run this past anyone upstairs?”</p>
			<p>“I want the dolphins set down right about there,” Lubin said, pinpointing a spot on the tabletop. “Take care of it, will you?”</p>
			<p>“Certainly.” Burton moved back to his panel. Lubin spared a moment to watch his back.</p>
			<p>
				<i>Patience, Burton. You’ll get your chance soon enough.</i>
			</p>
			<p>
				<i>If I fuck up⁠ ⁠…</i>
			</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>If he fucked up <i>again</i>, actually.</p>
			<p>He still couldn’t believe it. All those blood tests he’d ordered, all those path scans, and he’d never thought to test for heavy metals. He’d been eating raw oceanic wildlife for weeks, and it had never even occurred to him.</p>
			<p><i>Idiot</i>, he repeated to himself for the thousandth time.</p>
			<p>The GA’s medics had caught it when they were cleansing him of ßehemoth. They’d assured him that he couldn’t be held responsible. That was the thing about heavy metals; they affected the brain. The mercury itself had dulled his faculties, they said. All things considered, he’d actually been performing better than expected.</p>
			<p>But maybe Burton could have performed better. Maybe Burton knew it.</p>
			<p>Burton had never much liked him, Lubin knew. He wasn’t quite sure why. Of course, you don’t inject Rwanda11 into a man’s cells without expecting some increase in the usual alpha-male headbutting responses, but dispassion was a trait even more valued than ruthlessness; both of them had been tweaked for enhanced self-control even more than for the euphemistic <i>necessary steps</i>.</p>
			<p>Lubin shrugged off the challenger and concentrated on the challenge. At least Chicago narrowed the options somewhat. Still not enough to catch Clarke until she made her move. The simple geometry of πr2 saw to that: double your search radius and effectiveness dropped by a factor of four. The waterfront was the bottleneck; wherever Clarke was now, that was where she’d be heading. She’d be running into opposition that increased exponentially as she approached that target, the flip side of inverse-square. Most of his people, Lubin knew, expected to take her out before she even saw the water.</p>
			<p>He wasn’t so sure. Clarke had none of the special skills and training that armed the least of her enemies, no botflies or talking guns, but she had something. She was smart, and she was tough, and she did not behave like a normal human being. Pain didn’t seem to frighten her at all.</p>
			<p>And she <i>hated</i>, more purely and perfectly than anyone Lubin had ever known.</p>
			<p>She also had half of Maelstrom backing her up. Or had until recently, anyway. Lubin wondered if she’d grown used to being so unaccountably lucky. Had she started to believe her own PR, had she begun to think herself invincible? Did she know yet that she was back on her own?</p>
			<p>Hopefully not. Anything that built her confidence worked in Lubin’s favor.</p>
			<p>Burton still didn’t think she’d risk running the gauntlet. Burton wanted to descend from on high and impose martial law, shut that fucking sprawl <i>down</i>, right to the rivets, search room by room until the next millennium if that’s what it took. Burton had no patience and no subtlety. No appreciation for πr2. You don’t catch fish by chasing them around the ocean with a net; you set the net where you know the fish will come, and you wait.</p>
			<p>Of course, Burton didn’t think this particular fish <i>would</i> come to the net. She wasn’t an idiot. All she had to do was hang back and wait them out. It was a plausible enough line of reasoning, if you didn’t know what Lubin knew.</p>
			<p>If you didn’t know that Lenie Clarke, quite simply, was homesick.</p>
			<p>The lost distant abyss was an ache inside of her, and if Lake Michigan was a poor imitation of that world, at least it was an imitation of <i>some</i> kind. No smokers, no crystalline hot-and-cold running seawater, no glowing monsters to light the way⁠—but fifteen atmospheres, at least. Darkness and cold, if you stayed near the bottom. Sheltering murk and currents enough to convect away any telltale heatprint. It might be enough, Lubin knew.</p>
			<p>He knew that Lenie Clarke’s desire would drive her along the straightest line she could manage. He’d known it from the moment he’d seen the records of that anomalous little outbreak in the Cariboo woods. A patch of alpine forest even deader than the norm. Something that had once been a man, curled protectively around something else that had once been a little girl. The crews hadn’t checked the lake at all, they’d simply burned the area the way they’d burned all the others. It was only when Lubin had insisted⁠—driven by his belated review of <i>the story so far</i>⁠—that they’d sent back an ROV and surveyed the bottom. It was only then that anyone noticed the cobble and deadwood kicked into violent disarray fifty meters down, in a place where the largest inhabitants had been insects. As if something had dropped to the bottom and found it hopelessly wanting, clawed and pounded against bedrock as though driven to tunnel to the core of the earth itself. When Lubin had seen that telemetry, he’d known.</p>
			<p>He’d known then, as he knew now, because he felt exactly the same way. Lenie Clarke had been a fish out of water for too long; nothing in Burton’s arsenal would scare her off. She was coming.</p>
			<p>And if those towering black anvils advancing from the south were anything to go on, she was bringing the wrath of God along for the ride.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p><i>Maybe she planned it that way</i>, he mused. <i>Maybe she summoned the storm the same way she summoned the quake.</i></p>
			<p>It was easy to indulge in the legend, even tempting. But you didn’t have to invoke sorcery to explain the thunderheads marching on Chicago; violent storms had been the spring norm for twenty years or more in these parts. Just another long-term surprise hatched from that chaotic package of cause-and-effect called <i>climate change</i>.</p>
			<p>It had actually proven beneficial to certain aspects of the economy. The market for shatterproof windows had never been stronger.</p>
			<p>If she hadn’t conjured the elements, though, she’d at least been smart enough to use them. Perhaps she’d been holding back, digging her heels in against that relentless pull of dark water, until the weather was perfectly poised to cast a wrench into the machinery.</p>
			<p>All for the better, then. It would give her greater confidence in her own success.</p>
			<p>The cockpit intercom beeped in his ear: “Front’s coming in too fast, sir. We’ll have to either get above it or set down.”</p>
			<p>“How long?” Lubin asked.</p>
			<p>“Half hour, tops.” Outside, the sky flashed stark white. An avalanche rumbled faintly through the deck.</p>
			<p>“Okay.” Lubin magged visual. Three hundred meters beneath him, Lake Michigan was a heaving gray cauldron of scrap metal. There were a dozen stealthed transports between the lifter and the lake, their Thayer nets set to <i>obliterative countershade</i>. Lubin could pick them out if he tried; the chromatophores lagged a bit when mimicking fast fractals. As far as any civilian would be able to tell, though, the lifter had local airspace all to itself.</p>
			<p>“The dolphins are down,” Burton reported from across the compartment. “And we’ve got a bad storm-sewer monitor on South Aberd⁠—”</p>
			<p>Lubin cut him off with a wave of the hand: a white diamond icon had just appeared on the tabletop. A second later his comlink beeped.</p>
			<p>“West Randolph,” someone reported from the depths of Chicago. “Just past the river. Moving east.”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>They’d strung mist nets at strategic locations along the Chicago River, in addition to the usual anti-exotic electricals; Clarke had already ridden a river past one dragnet, and there was a chance she’d try it again. No such luck, though. This sighting was on the wrong side of those barricades. A botfly had snapped an aura completely inconsistent with the outside accessories of the woman who’d worn it. The doorway she’d entered led down into a half-empty commercial warren with a hundred access points.</p>
			<p>Lubin realigned his pieces on the way in. Two of the choppers dropped to within spitting distance of the waves, each giving birth to twins; minisubs like finback calves, spacing themselves in an arc two kilometers off the waterfront. Each sub, in turn, birthed a litter of snoops that arranged themselves into a diffuse grid from surface to substrate.</p>
			<p>The other choppers touched down from Meigs Field to the Grand Avenue docks, disgorged their cargo, and hunkered down against the oncoming storm. The command lifter came in behind them, pausing fifty meters above the seawall; Lubin slid down inside an extensible tube that uncoiled from the lifter’s belly like an absurd proboscis. By the time the huge airship had wallowed away, a command hut had been set up at the foot of East Monroe.</p>
			<p>Lubin braced against the rising wind and looked over the edge of Chicago’s new seawall. The streaked gray precipice rose smoothly to the railing. The grated mouths of storm sewers punctuated the revetment at regular intervals, drooling insignificant trickles of wastewater. Each opening was twice as high as a man. Lubin ballparked the scale and nodded to himself: the weave of the grillwork was easily tight enough to keep anyone from squeezing through.</p>
			<p>A low-flying helicopter flitted past, spraying the water: the waves in its wake swelled and congealed into a swath of gelatinous foam. Lubin had ordered the shoreline gelled from Lakeshore down to Meigs; the storm would probably smash the tanglefoam to lint after a while, but if Clarke hurled herself off a bridge before that point, she’d be stuck like an ant in honey. A floating pen bobbed at the offshore edge of the gelled zone, rimmed by an inflatable boom riding the waves like a boneless serpent. Lubin tapped a control on the side of his visor; the enclosure sprang into near focus.</p>
			<p><i>There</i>.</p>
			<p>Just for a moment, a sleek gray back, metallic inlays glinting darkly along the leading edge of the dorsal fin. Another. Half a dozen there all told, although you’d never see more than one on the surface at any given time.</p>
			<p>The wind died.</p>
			<p>Lubin slipped off his headset and looked around with naked eyes. It was close to noon, as dark as a solar eclipse. Overhead the sky boiled in silent, ominous slow motion.</p>
			<p>A distant clattering roar began cascading through the city at his back: storm shutters, slamming shut along a thousand Euclidean canyons. It sounded as though the buildings themselves were applauding the rise of some long-awaited curtain. A single perfect raindrop, the size of his thumbnail, splatted on the asphalt at Lubin’s feet.</p>
			<p>He turned and entered the command hut.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Another hallucinogenic tabletop dominated the single-room enclosure. Lubin studied the chessboard: two arms of security extended out from the waterfront, diverging northwest from Grand and southwest from Eisenhower. A funnel, to guide Lenie Clarke to a place of another’s choosing. Two-point-five klicks west of the seawall, a band of botflies and exoskels formed a north-south line and began sealing off skyways and tunnels.</p>
			<p>Seven and a half square kilometers found itself excised from the world along these boundaries. Surface traffic moved within and without, but not <i>across</i>; the rapitrans grid went utterly dark across its breadth. The flow of information took a little longer to cut off⁠—</p>
			<p>—<i>wouldn’t you know it another goddamned quarantine looks like I won’t be able to make our eight-thirty after all, hello? Hello? Jesus fucking Christ⁠ ⁠…</i></p>
			<p>—but eventually even electrons respected the new borders. The target, after all, was well-known to receive assistance from such quarters.</p>
			<p>But it was not enough to simply cut this parallelogram out of the world. Lenie Clarke still moved there, among several hundred thousand sheep. Lubin let Burton off the leash for a while.</p>
			<p>A blond Peruvian was putting a telemetry panel through its paces in one corner of the hut. Lubin joined her while Burton feasted on the application of naked force. “Kinsman. How are they doing?”</p>
			<p>“Complaining about the noise. And they always hate freshwater ops. Makes them feel heavy.”</p>
			<p>Her panel was a matrix of views from cams embedded in the leading edge of each dolphin’s dorsal fin. A gray crescent marred the lower edge of each window, where the animals’ melons intruded on the view. Ghostly shapes slipped past each other in the green darkness beyond.</p>
			<p>Endless motion. Those monsters never even slept; one cerebral hemisphere might, or the other, but they were never both unconscious at the same time. Tweaked from raw <i>Tursiops</i> stock only four generations old, fins and flippers inlaid with reinforcements that gave new meaning to the term <i>cutting edge</i>, echolocation skills honed so fine over sixty million years that hard tech could still barely match it. Humanity had tried all sorts of liaisons with the Cetacea over the years. Big dumb pilot whales, eager to please. Orcas, too large for clandestine ops and a little too prone to psychosis in confined spaces. Lags and Spots and all those stiff-necked open-water pansies from the tropics. But <i>Tursiops</i> was the one, had always <i>been</i> the one. Not just smart; <i>mean</i>.</p>
			<p>If Clarke got that far, she’d never see them coming.</p>
			<p>“What about the noise?” Lubin asked.</p>
			<p>“Industrial waterfronts are loud at the best of times,” Kinsman told him. “Like an echo chamber, all those flat reflective surfaces. You know how you feel when someone shines bright lights in your eyes? Same thing.”</p>
			<p>“Are they just complaining, or will it interfere with the op?”</p>
			<p>“Both. It’s not too bad now, but when the storm sewers start draining you’re gonna have a dozen whitewater sources pounding into the lake all along this part of the seawall. Lots of noise, bubbles, stuff kicked off the bottom. Under ideal conditions my guys can track a ping-pong ball at a hundred meters, but the way it’s going outside⁠—I’d say ten, maybe twenty.”</p>
			<p>“Still better than anything else we could deploy under the same conditions,” Lubin said.</p>
			<p>“Oh, easily.”</p>
			<p>Lubin left Kinsman to her charges and grabbed his pack off the floor. The storm assaulted him the moment he left the hut’s soundproof interior. The downpour drenched on contact. The sky above was as black as the asphalt below; both flashed white whenever lightning ripped the space between. Lubin’s people stood on conspicuous duty along the seawall, punctuating every vantage point. The rain turned them slick and black as rifters after a dive.</p>
			<p>Shoot to kill was a given. It might not be enough, though. If Clarke made it this far, there were too many places she could simply dive off an embankment. That was okay: in fact, Lubin rather expected it. That was what the subs and the snoops and the dolphins were for.</p>
			<p>Only the subs were useless close to shore, and now Kinsman was saying the dolphins might not be able to acquire a target more than a few meters away⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p>He set his pack down and split it open.</p>
			<p>
				<i>And if the dolphins can’t catch her, what makes you think you can?</i>
			</p>
			<p>The odd thing was, he actually had an answer.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Burton was waiting when Lubin got back inside. “We’ve rounded up a bunch of⁠—oh, very nice. A salute to the enemy, maybe? In her final hour?”</p>
			<p>Lubin assayed a slight smile, and hoped that someday soon Burton would pose a threat to security. His eyecaps slid disconcertingly beneath lids not quite reacclimated to their presence. “What do you have?”</p>
			<p>“We have a bunch of people who look a lot like you do right now,” Burton said. “None of them have actually seen Clarke⁠—in fact, none of them even knew she was in town. Maybe the Anemone’s losing its touch.”</p>
			<p>“The anemone?”</p>
			<p>“Haven’t you heard? That’s what people are calling it now.”</p>
			<p>“Why?”</p>
			<p>“Beats me.”</p>
			<p>Lubin stepped over to the chess board; half a dozen cylindrical blue icons shone at points where civilians were being held to <i>assist the ongoing investigation</i>.</p>
			<p>“Of course, we’re a long way from sampling the whole population yet,” Burton continued. “And we’re concentrating on the obvious groupies, the costumes. There’ll be a lot more in civvies. Still, none of the people we’ve interrogated so far knows anything. Clarke could have an army if she wanted, but as far as we can tell she hasn’t even begged a sandwich. It’s completely off-the-wall.”</p>
			<p>Lubin slipped his headset back on. “I’d say it’s standing her in good stead now,” he remarked mildly. “She seems to have <i>you</i> dead-ended, anyway.”</p>
			<p>“There are other suspects,” Burton said. “Lots of them. We’ll turn her up.”</p>
			<p>“Good luck.” The tacticals in Lubin’s visor were oddly drained of color⁠—<i>oh, right. The eyecaps</i>. He eyed the blue cylinders glowing in the zone, tweaked his headset controls until they resaturated. Such clean, perfect shapes, each representing a grand violation of civil rights. He was often surprised at how little resistance civilians offered in the face of such measures. Innocent people, detained by the hundreds without charge. Cut off from friends and family and⁠—at least for those who’d have been able to afford it⁠—counsel. All in a good cause, of course. Civil rights should run a distant second to global survival in <i>anyone</i>’s book. The usual suspects didn’t know what was at stake, though. As far as they knew, this was just another case of officially-sanctioned thugs like Burton, throwing their weight around.</p>
			<p>Yet only a few had resisted. Perhaps they’d been conditioned by all the quarantines and blackouts, all the invisible boundaries CSIRA erected on a moment’s notice. The rules changed from one second to the next, the rug could get pulled out just because the wind blew some exotic weed outside its acceptable home range. You couldn’t fight something like that, you couldn’t fight the wind. All you could do was adapt. People were evolving into herd animals.</p>
			<p>Or maybe just accepting that that’s what they’d always been.</p>
			<p>Not Lenie Clarke, though. Somehow, she’d gone the other way. A born victim, passive and yielding as seaweed, had suddenly grown thorns and hardened its stems to steel. Lenie Clarke was a mutant; the same environment that turned everyone else into bobbing corks had transformed her into barbed wire.</p>
			<p>A white diamond blossomed near Madison and La Salle. “Got her,” the comlink crackled in a voice Lubin didn’t recognize. “Probably her, anyway.”</p>
			<p>He tapped into the channel. “Probably?”</p>
			<p>“Securicam snapshot down in a basement mall. No EM sensor down there, so we can’t confirm. We got a three-quarter profile for a half-second, though. Bayesians say eighty-two percent likely.”</p>
			<p>“Can you seal off that block?”</p>
			<p>“Not automatically. No master kill switches or anything.”</p>
			<p>“Okay, do it manually.”</p>
			<p>“Got it.”</p>
			<p>Lubin switched channels. “Engineering?”</p>
			<p>“Here.” They’d set up a dedicated line to City Planning. The people on that end were strictly need-to-know, of course; no hint of the stakes involved, no recognizable name to humanize the target. A dangerous fugitive in the core, yours is not to question why, full stop. Almost no chance for messy security breaches there.</p>
			<p>“Have you got the fix on La Salle?” Lubin asked, zooming the chessboard.</p>
			<p>“Sure do.”</p>
			<p>“What’s down there?”</p>
			<p>“These days, not much. Originally retail, but most of the merchants moved out with the spread. A lot of empty stalls.”</p>
			<p>“No, I mean substructures. Crawlspaces, service tunnels, that sort of thing. Why aren’t I seeing any of that on the map?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, shit, that stuff’s <i>ancient</i>. TwenCen and older. A lot of it never even got into the database; by the time we updated our files nobody was using those areas except derelicts and wireheads, and with all the data-corruption problems we’ve been having⁠—”</p>
			<p>“You <i>don’t know</i>?” A soft beeping began in Lubin’s head: someone else wanting to talk.</p>
			<p>“Someone might have scanned the old blueprints onto a crystal somewhere. I could check.”</p>
			<p>“Do that.” Lubin switched channels. “Lubin.”</p>
			<p>It was his point man on the seawall. “We’re losing the tanglefoam.”</p>
			<p>“Already?” They should have had at least another hour.</p>
			<p>“It’s not just the rainfall, it’s the storm sewers. They’re funneling precip from the whole city right out through the seawall. Have you <i>seen</i> the volume those drains are putting out?”</p>
			<p>“Not recently.” Things just kept getting better.</p>
			<p>Burton, unrebukably occupied with his own duties, nonetheless seemed to have an ear cocked in Lubin’s direction. “I’ll be right out,” Lubin said after a moment.</p>
			<p>“That’s okay,” Seawall said. “I can just feed you a⁠—”</p>
			<p>Lubin killed the channel.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Whitewater roared from a mouth in the revetment, wide as a tanker truck. Lubin couldn’t begin to guess at the force of that discharge; it extended at least four meters from the wall before gravity could even coax it off the horizontal. The tanglefoam had retreated on all sides; Lake Michigan heaved and thrashed in the opened space, reclaiming even more territory.</p>
			<p>
				<i>Great.</i>
			</p>
			<p>There were eleven drains just like this along the secured waterfront. Lubin redeployed two dozen inshore personnel to the seawall.</p>
			<p>City Planning beeped in his ear. “… nd some⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>He cranked up the filters on his headset; the roar of the storm faded a bit. “Say again?”</p>
			<p>“Found something! Two-d and low-res, but it looks like there’s nothing down there but a service crawlway running above the ceiling and a sewer main under the floor.”</p>
			<p>“Can they be accessed?” Even with the filters, Lubin could barely hear his own voice.</p>
			<p>Engineering didn’t seem to have any trouble, though. “Not from the concourse, of course. There’s a physical plant under the next block.”</p>
			<p>“And if she got into the main?”</p>
			<p>“She’d end up at the treatment plant on Burnham, most likely.”</p>
			<p>They had Burnham covered. But⁠—“What do you mean, <i>most likely</i>? Where else could she end up?”</p>
			<p>“Sewage and storm systems spill together when things get really swamped. Keeps the treatment facilities from flooding. It’s not as bad as it sounds, though. By the time things get <i>this</i> crazy, the flow’s great enough to dilute the sewage⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Are you saying⁠—” A bolt of lightning cut the sky into jagged fragments. Lubin forced himself to wait. The thunderclap in the ensuing darkness was deafening. “Are you saying she could be in the <i>storm sewers?</i>”</p>
			<p>“Well, theoretically, but it doesn’t matter.”</p>
			<p>“Why not?”</p>
			<p>“There’d have to be an <i>awful</i> lot of water going through before the systems would mix. The moment your fugitive crossed over she’d be sucked down and drowned. No way she could fight the current, and there wouldn’t be any airspace left in the pi⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Everything’s going through the storm system now?”</p>
			<p>“Most of it.”</p>
			<p>“Will the grates hold?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t understand,” Engineering said.</p>
			<p>“The grates! The grills covering the outfalls! Are they rated to withstand this kind of flow?”</p>
			<p>“The grates are down,” Engineering said.</p>
			<p>“<i>What!</i>”</p>
			<p>“They fold down automatically when tonnes-per-sec gets too high. Otherwise they’d impede flow and the whole system would back up.”</p>
			<p>
				<i>Heavy metal strikes again.</i>
			</p>
			<p>Lubin opened an op-wide channel. “She’s not coming overland. She’s⁠—”</p>
			<p>Kinsman, the dolphin woman, cut in: “Gandhi’s got something. Channel twelve.”</p>
			<p>He switched channels, found himself underwater. Half the image was a wash of static, interference even the Bayesians couldn’t clear in realtime. The other half wasn’t much better: a foamy gray wash of bubbles and turbulence.</p>
			<p>A split-second glimpse, off to the left: a flicker of darker motion. Gandhi caught it too, twisted effortlessly into the new heading. The camera rotated smoothly around its own center of focus as the dolphin rolled over on its back. The murk darkened.</p>
			<p><i>He’s going deep</i>, Lubin realized. <i>Coming up from underneath. Good boy.</i></p>
			<p>Now the image centered on a patch of diffuse radial brightness, fading to black on all sides: the optics of ascent toward a brighter surface. Suddenly the target was <i>there</i>, dead to rights: silhouetted arms, a head, flashing stage left and disappearing.</p>
			<p>“Hit,” Kinsman reported. “She never saw it coming.”</p>
			<p>“Remember, we don’t want her bleeding out there,” Lubin cautioned.</p>
			<p>“Gandhi knows the drill. He’s not using his pecs, he’s just ram⁠—”</p>
			<p>Again: a piecemeal human shadow, found and lost in an instant. The image jarred slightly.</p>
			<p>“Huh,” Kinsman said. “She saw that coming somehow. Almost got out of the way in time.”</p>
			<p><i>The implants</i>. For an instant Lubin was back on the Juan de Fuca Ridge, comfortably suspended under three kilometers of black icewater. Feeling Beebe’s sonar <i>tick-tick-tick</i>ing against the machinery in his chest⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p>“She can feel the click trains,” he said. “Tell Gandhi to lay⁠—”</p>
			<p>Another pass. This time the target faced her attacker head-on, eyes bright smudges in a dark jigsaw, one arm coming up in a vain attempt to ward off two hundred kilograms of bone and muscle <i>wait a second she’s holding something she’s⁠—</i></p>
			<p>The image skidded to the left. Suddenly the water was spinning again, no smooth controlled rotation this time, just a wild slewing corkscrew, purely ballistic, slowing against ambient drag. The darkness of deep water swelled ahead. A different darkness spilled in from the side, a black gory cloud spreading into brief cumulus before the currents tore it apart.</p>
			<p>“<i>Shit</i>,” Kinsman said. Lubin’s headset amped the whisper loud enough to drown thunder.</p>
			<p>
				<i>She kept her billy. All the way from Beebe, hitching and walking and riding across the whole damn continent.</i>
			</p>
			<p>
				<i>Good for her⁠ ⁠…</i>
			</p>
			<p>The vision imploded to darkness and a final flurry of static. Lubin was back on the waterfront, sheets of rain beating the world into a blur scarcely brighter than the one he’d just left.</p>
			<p>“Gandhi’s down,” Kinsman reported.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Kinsman tag-teamed two more dolphins to the site of Gandhi’s last stand; Lubin pulled abreast on the seawall a few moments after they arrived. Burton was waiting there with a charged squid, water cascading from his rainskin.</p>
			<p>“Fan them out,” Lubin told Kinsman over the link. “Hyperbolic focus on the carcass, offshore spread.” He grabbed his fins off the scooter and stepped to the edge of the seawall, Burton at his side. “What about Gandhi?”</p>
			<p>“Gandhi’s sockeye,” Kinsman said.</p>
			<p>“No, I mean what about emotional ties? What impact will his loss have on the efficiency of the others?”</p>
			<p>“For Singer and Caldicott, none. They never liked him all that much. That’s why I sent them.”</p>
			<p>“Okay. Line up the rest on a converging perimeter, but keep them away from the outfalls.”</p>
			<p>“No problem,” Kinsman acknowledged. “They wouldn’t be much good in there anyway, with <i>those</i> acoustics.”</p>
			<p>“I’m switching to vocoder in thirty seconds. Channel five.”</p>
			<p>“Got it.”</p>
			<p>Burton watched neutrally as Lubin bent over to pull on his fins. “Bad break!” he shouted over the storm. “About the sewers, I mean!”</p>
			<p>Lubin snugged his heel straps, reached out for the squid. Burton handed it over. Lubin sealed his face flap. The diveskin reached across his eyelids and bonded to the caps beneath, blocked nose and mouth like liquid rubber. He stood, isolated from the downpour, calmly suffocating.</p>
			<p><i>Good</i> <i>luck</i>, Burton mouthed through the rain.</p>
			<p>Lubin hugged the squid to his chest and stepped into space.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Michigan closed over his head, roaring.</p>
			<p>Fifteen meters to the north, one of Chicago’s outfalls spewed an endless vomit of wastewater into the lake; the whirlpools and eddies from that discharge reached Lubin with scarcely-diminished strength. A fog of microscopic bubbles swirled on all sides, smeared muddy light throughout the water. Bits of detritus looped through eccentric orbits, fading to white just past the reach of his fingers. Water sucked and slurped on all sides. Overhead, barely visible, the rain-pelted surface writhed like mercury under rapid-fire assault⁠—and all around, omnipresent in the heavy surge, the deep deafening roar of waterfalls.</p>
			<p>Lubin spun in the current, insides flooding, and reveled.</p>
			<p>He didn’t think that Lenie Clarke was headed for deep water just yet. She might not have anticipated the minisubs lurking deep offshore; she knew about the dolphins, though, and she knew about sonar. She knew all about the effects of turbulence on sensory systems both electronic and biological. She’d stay close to shore, hiding in the cacophony of the outfalls. Soon, perhaps, she’d edge north or south in furtive stages, creeping along a murky jungle of wreckage and detritus left over from three centuries of <i>out-of-sight-out-of-mind</i>. Even in calm weather there’d be no shortage of hiding places.</p>
			<p>Now, though, she was injured, probably fighting shock. Gandhi had hit her twice before Clarke had rallied; it was amazing that she’d even stayed conscious through that pounding, let alone fought back. For the time being she was holed up somewhere, just hanging on.</p>
			<p>Lubin glanced at the nav console on his wrist. A tiny two-d representation of local space sparkled there⁠—starring, as Ken Lubin, a convergence of sharp green lines at center stage. Occasional yellow pinpoints drifted in and out of range: Kinsman’s dolphins, patrolling the perimeter. Another pinpoint, much closer, wasn’t moving at all. Lubin aimed his squid and squeezed the throttle.</p>
			<p>Gandhi was a mess. Clarke’s billy had discharged against the right side of his head; the front of the animal had been blown apart in an instant. Behind the dorsal fin, the carcass was pretty much intact. Farther forward a fleshy wreckage of ribs and skull remained on the left side, that maniacal idiot dolphin grin persisting even past death. The right side was gone entirely.</p>
			<p>Gandhi was impaled on a sunken tangle of rebar. The current here moved offshore; the dolphin must have met his fate closer to the seawall. Lubin swung the squid around and started upstream.</p>
			<p>“… eive⁠ ⁠… Lu⁠ ⁠… ical?”</p>
			<p>The word fragments buzzed along his lower jaw, all but lost in the ambient thunder. Lubin, struck by sudden realization, cranked up the gain on his vocoder: “Keep this channel clear. Cl⁠—”</p>
			<p>His words, transmuted by the vocoder into a harsh metallic buzz, caught him offguard. It had been months since the implants had mutilated his voice that way. The sound almost invoked a kind of nostalgia.</p>
			<p>“No contact,” he continued. “Clarke’s got L-FAM implants. She could be listening in.”</p>
			<p>“… ain?⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>In fact, even if Clarke was tuned to the right channel, it was doubtful that she’d make any more sense of the signal than Lubin had. Acoustic modems had not been built with whitewater in mind.</p>
			<p>
				<i>And why would she be listening anyway? How would she know I’m even here?</i>
			</p>
			<p>It wasn’t a chance he was willing to take. He kept as silent as his quarry, wherever she was. The lake raged around them both.</p>
			<p>Intuition is not clairvoyance. It’s not guesswork either. Intuition is <i>executive summary</i>, that ninety percent of the higher brain that functions subconsciously⁠—but no less rigorously⁠—than the self-aware subroutine that thinks of itself as <i>the</i> person. Lubin glided through murk so thick he could barely see the squid that drew him forward; he set the machine to heel and crawled through dead twisted warrens of wreckage and dereliction, spikes and jagged edges rampant under layers of slime that softened only their appearance. He let the current push him offshore, then grab him and hurl him against the base of the seawall itself. He clambered sideways like a crab on gray scoured surfaces, pressed himself flat while the water tried to peel him off and flick him away like an old decal. He let those intuitive subroutines guide him; weighing scenarios, sifting memories, remembering happier times when Lenie Clarke had revealed <i>this</i> motive, <i>that</i> preference. He explored some potential refugia, ignored others, and would not have been able to say exactly why. But all parts of Ken Lubin had been well and thoroughly trained: the brain stem and the analytical subroutines and the little homunculus that sat self-consciously behind his eyes. Each knew what to do, and what to leave to the others.</p>
			<p>And so it was not entirely unexpected that he should come upon Lenie Clarke, hiding in the shadow of one of Chicago’s absurd waterfalls, wedged in a canyon of wreckage from the previous century.</p>
			<p>She was in bad shape. Her body was twisted in a way that suggested Gandhi’s blows had done their job. Her diveskin had been torn along the ribcage, either from the dolphin’s attack or from the jagged geometry of the lakebed. She favored her left arm. But she’d chosen her refuge well; too much noise for sonar, too much metal for EM signatures, too much shit in the water for anyone without the eyes and the instincts of a rifter to ever track her down. Burton would have passed within a meter and not picked up the scent.</p>
			<p><i>Good girl</i>, he thought.</p>
			<p>She looked up from her hiding place, her featureless white eyes meeting his through two meters of milky chaos, and he knew instantly that she recognized him.</p>
			<p>He had hoped, against all reason, that she wouldn’t.</p>
			<p><i>I’m sorry</i>, he thought. <i>I really don’t have any choice.</i></p>
			<p>Of course she still had the billy. Of course she kept it concealed until the last moment, then yanked it into play with desperate swiftness. Of course she tried to use it on herself; doomed anyway, what better act of final revenge than to set ßehemoth free in one final, suicidal catharsis?</p>
			<p>Lubin saw all of it coming, and disarmed her with barely a thought. But the billy, when he checked, was empty. Gandhi had taken its final charge. Lubin dropped it onto the muddy junkscape.</p>
			<p><i>I’m sorry.</i> The sexual anticipation of imminent murder began stirring in him. <i>I liked you. You were the only⁠—you really deserved to win⁠ ⁠…</i></p>
			<p>She stared back. She didn’t trip her vocoder. She didn’t try to speak.</p>
			<p>Any second now Guilt Trip would kick in. Once again, Lubin felt almost sick with gratitude: that an engineered neurochemical could so easily shoulder all responsibility for his acts. That he was about to kill his only friend, and remain blameless of any wrongdoing. That⁠—</p>
			<p>It was impossible to close one’s eyes while wearing a diveskin. The material bonded to the eyecaps, pinned the lids back in an unblinking stare. Lenie Clarke looked at Ken Lubin. Ken Lubin looked away.</p>
			<p>Guilt Trip had never taken this long before.</p>
			<p>
				<i>It’s not working. Something’s wrong.</i>
			</p>
			<p>He waited for his gut to force him into action. He waited for orders and absolution. He went down into himself as deep as he dared, looking for some master to take the blame.</p>
			<p>
				<i>No. No. Something’s wrong.</i>
			</p>
			<p><i>Do I have to kill her</i> myself<i>?</i></p>
			<p>By the time he realized he wasn’t going to get an answer, it was too late. He looked back into Lenie Clarke’s final refuge, steeling himself for damnation.</p>
			<p>And saw that it was empty.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
