<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Terrarium</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter">
		<section id="chapter-3-6" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Terrarium</h2>
			<p>An icon flashed at the corner of Desjardins’s board. He ignored it.</p>
			<p>The new feed had just gone online: a thread of fiberop snaking in all its messy physicality under the door and down the hallway. There hadn’t been any other way; CSIRA was far too security-conscious to allow civilian nodes inside its perimeter, and The General⁠—or <i>Anemone</i>, or whatever it was called today⁠—hadn’t talked to any other kind since before Yankton. If Desjardins wanted to go into combat, he’d have to do it on enemy turf.</p>
			<p>That meant a hardline. Outside wireless was jammed as a matter of course; even wristwatches couldn’t get online in CSIRA without going through the local hub. Desjardins had envisioned a cable running through the lobby into the street, hanging a left and tripping up pedestrians all the way to the nearest public library. Fortunately, there’d been a municipal junction box in the basement.</p>
			<p>His board upped the lumens on the icon, a visual voice-raising: Alice Jovellanos <i>still</i> wants to talk. Please respond.</p>
			<p><i>Forget it, Alice. Your face is the last thing I want to see right now</i>. <i>You’re lucky I haven’t turned you in already.</i></p>
			<p>If Guilt Trip had been doing his⁠—<i>its</i> job, he <i>would</i> have turned her in. God only knew how badly he could screw up now, thanks to that little saboteur’s handiwork. God only knew how many <i>other</i> ‘lawbreakers she was putting at risk the same way, how many catastrophes would result from sheer glandular indecision at a critical moment. Alice Jovellanos had potentially put millions of lives in jeopardy.</p>
			<p>Not that that amounted to a fart in a hurricane next to what ßehemoth was gearing up for, of course. N’AmWire had just made it public: a big chunk of the west coast was now officially under quarantine. Even the <i>official</i> death toll had left the starting gate at four digits.</p>
			<p>The splice fed into a new panel that crowded him on the right. It was stand-alone and self-contained, unconnected and unconnectable to any CSIRA sockets. Vast walled spaces waited within⁠—spaces that could swallow the contents of a node and walls that could mimic its architecture at a moment’s notice. A habitat replicator, in effect. A terrarium.</p>
			<p>The icon began beeping. He muted it.</p>
			<p><i>Take a hint, Alice</i>.</p>
			<p>She’d really fucked him up the ass. The problem⁠—and the fact that it <i>was</i> a problem only emphasized how thoroughly she’d messed things up⁠—was that she obviously didn’t see it that way. She thought of herself as some sort of <i>liberator</i>. She’d acted out of some kind of twisted concern for <i>his</i> welfare. She’d actually put <i>his</i> interests above the Greater Good.</p>
			<p>Desjardins booted the terrarium. Startup diagnostics momentarily cluttered the display. He wouldn’t be using his inlays this time around; they were part of the CSIRA network, after all. It was going to be raw visual and touchpads all the way.</p>
			<p>
				<i>The Greater Good. Right.</i>
			</p>
			<p>That had always been a faceless, abstract thing to human sensibilities. It was easier to feel for the one person you knew than for the far-off suffering millions you didn’t. When the Big One had hit the Left Coast, Desjardins had watched the threads and spun his filters and breathed a silent sigh of relief that it hadn’t been <i>him</i> under all that rubble⁠—but on the day that Mandelbrot died, he knew, his heart would break.</p>
			<p>It was that illogical fact that made Guilt Trip necessary in the first place. It was that illogical fact that kept him from betraying Alice Jovellanos. He sure as shit wasn’t ready to sit down and have a friendly chat with her, but he couldn’t bring himself to sell her out either.</p>
			<p>Besides. If he really <i>had</i> figured out this whole Anemone thing, it was Alice who’d given him the idea.</p>
			<p>He tapped the board. A window opened. Maelstrom howled on the other side.</p>
			<p>Either way, he’d know within the hour.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>It was everywhere.</p>
			<p>Even where it wasn’t, it was. Where it wasn’t talking, it was being talked <i>about</i>. Where it wasn’t being talked about it was being sown, tales and myths of Lenie Clarke left inert until some unsuspecting vector opened a mailbox to hatch a whole new generation.</p>
			<p>“She’s everywhere. That’s why they can’t catch her.”</p>
			<p>“You’re shitting static. How can she be everywhere?”</p>
			<p>“Imposters. Clones. Who says there’s only one Lenie Clarke?”</p>
			<p>“She can, you know, <i>beam</i> herself. Quantum teleportation. It’s the blood nanos she’s carrying.”</p>
			<p>“That’s impossible.”</p>
			<p>“Remember the Strip?”</p>
			<p>“What about it?”</p>
			<p>“Lenie <i>started</i> it, haploid. She just strolled onto the beach and everyone she touched just threw off the drugs and woke up. Just like that. Sounds nano to me.”</p>
			<p>“That wasn’t nano. That’s just, you know, that firewitch bug from NoCal, the one that makes your joints fall apart? It got into the cyclers and fucked up some molecule in the valium. You want to know what Lenie <i>started</i>, she started that fucking <i>plague</i>⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>It had gotten smarter, too. Subtler. Hundreds of ‘lawbreakers were on the watch now, prowling civilian channels for the inexplicable clarity that had alerted Desjardins the day before. That slip hadn’t been repeated, as far as anyone could tell.</p>
			<p>And when Desjardins finally did acquire a target, it wasn’t baud rate or dropout that clued him in, but content:</p>
			<p>“I know where Lenie Clarke is.” It spoke with the sexless, neutral voice of inflated ascii set to <i>default</i>; its handle was <i>Tesseract</i>. “Les-beus are on her ass, but they’ve lost the trail for now.”</p>
			<p>“How do <i>you</i> know?” asked someone claiming to be <i>Poseidon</i>-<i>23</i>.</p>
			<p>“I’m Anemone,” <i>Tesseract</i> said.</p>
			<p>“Sure. And I’m Ken Lubin.”</p>
			<p>“Then your days are numbered, litcrit-o’-mine. Ken Lubin’s been turned. He’s working for the corpses now.”</p>
			<p>A <i>lot</i> smarter, to have known that. Not so smart to admit it in mixed company. Desjardins began sketching lines on his board.</p>
			<p>“We need to back her up,” <i>Tesseract</i> was saying. “Any of you in central N’Am, say around the Great Lakes?”</p>
			<p>No queries to the local traffic log, no surreptitious trawl for Turing apps, no trace on the channel. No moves on anything that <i>Tesseract</i> might be keeping an eye on. Achilles Desjardins had gotten smarter, too.</p>
			<p>“Piss off, Tessie.” Some skeptic going by <i>Hiigara</i>. “You expect us to sub to Lenie Clarke’s personal manager just showing up to chat?”</p>
			<p>Nothing in the local node. Desjardins started snooping adjacent servers.</p>
			<p>“I sense skepticism,” <i>Tesseract</i> remarked. “Special effects is what you want. A demonstration.”</p>
			<p>“<i>Yowsers</i>,” said <i>Poseidon-23</i>, and drowned in the roar of an ocean.</p>
			<p>Desjardins blinked. An instant before, there’d been six people on the channel listing. Now there were four thousand eight hundred sixty two, all speaking at once. No one voice was comprehensible, but even the collective blare was impossibly clear: a digital babble with no distortion, no static, no arrhythmic stutter of bytes delayed or lost in transit.</p>
			<p>Silence returned. The channel listing imploded back down to the six it had started with.</p>
			<p>“There you go,” said <i>Tesseract</i>.</p>
			<p><i>Shit</i>, Desjardins thought. Shaken, he studied the results on his board. <i>It’s talking to all of them</i>. <i>At once.</i></p>
			<p>“How’d you <i>do</i> that?” <i>Hiigara</i> asked.</p>
			<p>“I’d rather not,” <i>Tesseract</i> whispered. “It attracts attention. Are any of you in central N’Am, say around the Great Lakes?”</p>
			<p>He muted the chatter; he didn’t need it, now that he had the scent. There seemed to be a fair bit of wildlife in a hospital server across town. He stepped inside, looked out through its portals.</p>
			<p>Even more wildlife over <i>there</i>. Desjardins stepped sideways, and found himself in Oslo National’s account records. And even more wildlife flowing out to⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p>Step.</p>
			<p>Timor. <i>Real</i> heavy infestation. Of course, those little subsidiaries were still back in the twentieth century when it came to pest control, but still⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p><i>This is it,</i> he thought.</p>
			<p><i>Don’t touch anything</i>. <i>Go straight to the root.</i></p>
			<p>He did. He whispered sweet nothings to gatekeepers and system clocks, flashed his ID to ease their concerns. <i>A very large number of users are about to get very pissed off</i>, he reflected.</p>
			<p>He tapped his board. On the other side of the world, every portal on the edge of the Timor node slammed shut.</p>
			<p>Inside, time stuttered.</p>
			<p>It didn’t stop completely⁠—without <i>some</i> level of system iteration there’d be no way to copy what was inside. Hopefully that wouldn’t matter. A few thousand cycles, a few tens of thousands. Maybe enough for the enemy to lurch in stop-motion increments toward some dim awareness of what was happening, but not enough⁠—if he was lucky⁠—to actually <i>do</i> anything about it.</p>
			<p>He ignored the traffic piling up at Timor’s gates. He ignored the plaintive queries from other nodes who wondered why their feeds had gone dark. All he saw was the math in the bubble: architecture, operating system, software. Files and executables and wildlife. It was almost a kind of teleportation⁠—each bit fixed and read and reconstructed half a world away, the original left unchanged for all the intimacy of its violation.</p>
			<p>He had it.</p>
			<p>The Timor node jerked back up to speed. Sudden panic from something inside; wildlife flew like leaves in a tornado, tearing at records, bursting through doorways, disemboweling itself after the fact. It didn’t matter. It was too late.</p>
			<p>Desjardins smiled. He had an Anemone in a tank.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>In the terrarium, he <i>could</i> stop time completely.</p>
			<p>It was all laid out before him, flash-frozen: a software emulation of the node itself, copies of every register and address, every spin and every bit. He could set it all running with a single command.</p>
			<p>And it would fly apart in seconds. Just like the Timorese original.</p>
			<p>So he set up inviolable backups of the logs and registries and placed them <i>outside</i>, with a filtered two-way pipe to the originals. He went through each of the portals leading out of the node⁠—gates into oblivion now, from a bubble suspended in the void⁠—and gave a little half-twist to each.</p>
			<p>He regarded his handiwork. Time stood still. Nothing moved.</p>
			<p>“Moebius, come forth,” he murmered.</p>
			<p>Anemone screamed. A thousand unregistered executables leapt forward and clawed the traffic log to shreds; a million more escaped through the portals.</p>
			<p>Ten times as many rustled and watched:</p>
			<p>As the mutilated logs repaired themselves with barely time to bleed, magically replenished from on high;</p>
			<p>As the wildlife which had fled through <i>that</i> portal came plunging back in through <i>this</i> one, wheeling in confusion;</p>
			<p>As a channel opened in the midst of the wilderness and a voice rang out from Heaven: “Hey, you. Anemone.”</p>
			<p>“We don’t talk to you.” Sexless, neutral. Default.</p>
			<p>It was still going after the records, but it was taking a dozen tacks at once: subtle forgery, full frontal assault, everything in between. None of it worked, but Desjardins was impressed anyway. Damn smart.</p>
			<p>As smart as an orb-weaving spider, blindly obeying lifetime fitness functions. As smart as a bird, noting wind and distance and optimizing seed load to three decimal places.</p>
			<p>“You really <i>should</i> talk to me,” Desjardins said mildly. “I’m God.” He caught a piece of wildlife at random, tagged it, set it free again.</p>
			<p>“You’re shitting static. Lenie Clarke is God.” A school of fish, a flock of wheeling birds so complex you needed matrix algebra and thinking machines to understand it all. The ascii came from somewhere inside.</p>
			<p>“Clarke’s not God,” Desjardins said. “She’s a petri dish.”</p>
			<p>Wildlife still flew through the wraparound gateways, but less randomly; some sort of systematic exploration, evolving on the fly. Desjardins checked on the piece he’d tagged. It had descendents already, all carrying the Mark of Cain he’d bestowed on their ancestor. And their descendents had had descendents.</p>
			<p>Two hundred sixty generations in fourteen seconds. Not bad.</p>
			<p>
				<i>Thank you, Alice. If you hadn’t ranted on about dancing bumblebees, who knows when I would’ve figured this out⁠ ⁠…</i>
			</p>
			<p>“Maybe you need a demonstration,” said the swarm. “Special effects is what you want, yes?”</p>
			<p>And she’d been right. Genes have their own intelligence. They can wire an ant for the cultivation of underground farms, the domestication of aphid cattle⁠ ⁠… even the taking of slaves. Genes can shape behaviors so sophisticated they verge on genius, given time.</p>
			<p>“A demonstration,” Desjardins said. “Sure. Hit me.”</p>
			<p>Time’s the catch, of course. Genes are <i>slow</i>: a thousand generations to learn some optimal-foraging trick that a real brain could pick up in five minutes. Which is why brains evolved in the first place, of course. But when a hundred generations fit into the space of a yawn, maybe the genes get their edge back. Maybe wildlife learns to talk using only the blind stupid logic of natural selection⁠—and the poor lumbering meat-sack on the other end never suspects that he’s having a chat that spans generations.</p>
			<p>“I’m waiting,” Desjardins said.</p>
			<p>“Lenie Clarke is not a demonstration.” The swarm swirled in the terrarium. Was it Desjardins imagination, or did it seem to be⁠—fading, somehow?</p>
			<p>He smiled. “You’re losing it, aren’t you?”</p>
			<p>“Loaves and fishes for Anemone.”</p>
			<p>“But you’re not Anemone. You’re just a tiny <i>piece</i> of it, all alone⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>Time’s not enough in and of itself, of course. Evolution needs <i>variance</i> as well. Mutation and shuffling to create new prototypes, variable environments to weed out the unfit and shape the survivors.</p>
			<p>“Clarke, Lenie. Water lights up all cool and radium glow⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>Life can survive in a box, for a while at least. But it can’t <i>evolve</i> there. And down in Desjardins’s terrarium, the population was starting to look pretty inbred.</p>
			<p>“Free hardcore pedosnuff,” the swarm murmured. “Even to enter.”</p>
			<p>Countless individuals. Jostling, breeding. Stagnating.</p>
			<p>It’s all just <i>pattern</i>.</p>
			<p>“Sockeye,” said the wildlife, and nothing more.</p>
			<p>Desjardins realized he’d been holding his breath. He let it out, slowly.</p>
			<p>“Well,” he whispered, “you’re not so smart after all.</p>
			<p>“You just <i>act</i> like you are⁠ ⁠…”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
