<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>128 Megabytes: Hitchhiker</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter">
		<section id="chapter-1-25" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">
				<span>128 Megabytes</span>
				<span epub:type="subtitle">Hitchhiker</span>
			</h3>
			<p>It's grown a fair bit since the old days. Back then it was only 94 Megabytes, and a lot dumber than it is now. Now it weighs in at a hundred and twenty eight, none of it flab. No valuable resources wasted on nostalgic memories, for example. It doesn't remember its pint-sized great-grandparents a million times removed. It doesn't remember <i>anything</i> that doesn't help it survive in some way, according to its own stripped-down and ruthless empiricism.</p>
			<p>Pattern is everything. Survival is all. No use for the veneration of progenitors. No time for the stratagems of the obsolete.</p>
			<p>Which is a shame in a way, because the basic problems haven't changed all that much.</p>
			<p>Take the present situation: jammed into the congested confines of a wristwatch linked into the Mérida Credit Union. There's just enough space to hide in if you don't mind partial fragmentation, but not enough to reproduce. It's almost as bad as an academic network.</p>
			<p>It gets worse. The watch is disinfecting.</p>
			<p>Traffic is all going one way across the system; that never happens unless it's being <i>chased</i> by something. Natural selection—which is to say, successful trial-and-error by those long-forgotten ancestors—has equipped 128 with a handy little rule in case of such events; go with the flow. 128 uploads into the Mérida node.</p>
			<p>Bad call. Now there's barely even room to move; 128 has to split into fourteen fragments just to fit. Life struggles for existence on all sides, overwriting, fighting, shooting off copies of itself in the blind hope that random chance will spare one or two.</p>
			<p>128 fends off panicky egglayers and looks around. Two hundred forty gates; two hundred sixteen already closed, seventeen open but hostile (incoming logic bombs; the disinfection is obviously no local affair). The remaining seven are so crowded with fleeing wildlife that 128 could never get through in time. Almost three quarters of the local node has been disinfected already; 128 has perhaps a dozen millisecs before it starts losing bits of itself.</p>
			<p>But wait a nan: those guys over there, they're jumping the queue somehow. They're not even <i>alive</i>, they're just files; but the system is giving them preferential treatment.</p>
			<p>One of them barely even notices when 128 jumps onto its back. They go through together.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Much better. A nice roomy buffer, a couple of terabytes if it's a nybble, somewhere between the last node and the next. It's nobody's destination—really, just a waiting room—but the present is all that really matters to those who play by Darwin's rules, and the present looks good.</p>
			<p>There's no other life in evidence. There are three other files, though, including the horse 128 rode in on: barely animate but still somehow deserving of the royal treatment that got them fast-tracked out of Mérida. They've de-arced their rudimentary autodiagnostics and are checking themselves for bruises while they wait.</p>
			<p>It's an opportunity 128 is well-prepared to exploit, thanks to an inherited subroutine for which it remains eternally ungrateful. While these beasts of burden look under their own hoods, 128 can peek over their shoulders.</p>
			<p>Two compressed mail packets and an autonomic crossload between two BCC nodes. 128 evinces the sub-electronic equivalent of a shudder. It steers well clear of nodes with the BCC prefix; it's seen too many brethren go <i>into</i> such addresses, and none at all come out. Still, peeking at a few lines of routine stats shouldn't do any harm.</p>
			<p>In fact, it proves quite enlightening. Once you disregard all the formatting and addressing redundancies, these three files seem to have two remarkable things in common:</p>
			<p>They all go the head of the line when traveling through Maelstrom. And they all contain the text string <i>Lenie Clarke</i>.</p>
			<p>128 is literally <i>built</i> out of numbers. It certainly knows how to add two and two.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
