<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Groundswell</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter">
		<section id="chapter-1-24" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Groundswell</h3>
			<p><i>He knows something</i>, Sou-Hon Perrault thought. <i>And it's killing them.</i></p>
			<p>She wasn't the only one riding 'flies along the Strip, but she was the only one who seemed to have noticed the stickman. She'd mentioned him casually to a couple of colleagues, and been met with benign indifference; The Strip was braindead gig, a herd to be watched with one eye. Why would anyone actually <i>interact</i> with those cattle? They were too boring for entertainment, too placid for revolt, too powerless to do anything even if this Amitav <i>was</i> being a shit-disturber. They were functionally invisible.</p>
			<p>But three people threw rocks at her botfly the next day, and the upturned faces that met her were not so placid as they had been.</p>
			<p><i>Such faith you have in your machines</i>, Amitav had said. <i>You have never thought that perhaps they are not working as well as you think?</i></p>
			<p>Maybe it was nothing. Maybe Amitav's cryptic grumbles had only primed her imagination. After all, a few stonethrowers were hardly remarkable in a population of millions, and almost everywhere on the Strip the refugees milled as harmlessly as ever. Only along the stickman's beat were things even hinting at ugliness.</p>
			<p>But were people starting to look—well, <i>thinner</i>—along that particular sliver of the Oregon coast?</p>
			<p>Maybe. Not that gaunt faces were unusual on the Strip. Gastroenteritis, Maui-TB, a hundred other diseases thrived in those congested environs, utterly indifferent to the antibiotics that traditionally laced cycler food. Most of those bugs caused some degree of wasting. If people were losing weight, mere starvation was the <i>least</i> likely explanation.</p>
			<p><i>It is only after they begin starving that they see your cyclers for what they are</i>...</p>
			<p>Amitav refused to explain what he'd meant by that. When she sidled toward the subject he ignored the bait. When she'd asked him directly he dismissed her with a bitter laugh.</p>
			<p>"Your wonderful machines, not working? Impossible! Loaves and fishes for all!"</p>
			<p>And all the while, malnourished disciples accreted in his wake like the tail of a smoldering comet. Some seemed to be losing hair and fingernails. She stared back at their closed, hostile faces, increasingly convinced that it was not her imagination. Starvation took time to erode the body— perhaps a week before the flesh began visibly ebbing from the bones. But some of these people seemed to be hollowing out almost overnight. And what was causing that subtle blight of discoloration on so many cheeks and hands?</p>
			<p>She didn't know what else to do. She called in the dogcatchers.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
