<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-CA">
	<head>
		<title>Scalpel</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-2" id="chapter-2-17" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Scalpel</h3>
			<p>The door to Desjardins’s cubby was closed.</p>
			<p>
				<i>Hey there, Ken⁠—er, Colin⁠—</i>
			</p>
			<p>
				<i>Yeah, I used the upstairs john, the stalls play better ads up there for some reason⁠—</i>
			</p>
			<p>
				<i>Alice’s office? She asked me to check her mail, they don’t let us link in from outside⁠—</i>
			</p>
			<p>He took a breath. No point in getting ahead of himself. Lubin might not even bring it up. That might not even have <i>been</i> Lubin.</p>
			<p>
				<i>Yeah, right.</i>
			</p>
			<p>He opened the door. The cubby was empty.</p>
			<p>Desjardins didn’t know whether to be relieved or terrified. He closed the door behind himself and locked it.</p>
			<p>Unlocked it again.</p>
			<p>What was the point, anyway? Lubin would come back or he wouldn’t. He’d raise a challenge or he wouldn’t. But whoever Lubin was, he already had Achilles Desjardins by the balls; breaking the routine now would only make things uglier.</p>
			<p>And it wasn’t as though he was <i>really</i> alone anyway. There was another kind of monster in the cubby with him. He’d already glimpsed it lurking behind Jovellanos’s panel. He’d briefly been able to deny it then; that knock on the door had almost been a relief.</p>
			<p>But it was here, too. He could hear it snuffling in the data like a monster in the closet. He could see that closet doorknob turn slowly back and forth, taunting him. He’d seen frightening outlines, at least; he’d looked away before any details had registered. But now, waiting for Lubin’s return, there was nothing else to do.</p>
			<p>He opened the closet door and looked it in the face.</p>
			<p>The thousand faces of Lenie Clarke.</p>
			<p>It seemed innocent enough at first; a cloud of points congealing in a roughly Euclidean volume. <i>Time</i> ran through its center like a spinal cord. Where the cloud was thickest, rumors of Lenie Clarke grew in a wild profusion of hearsay and contradiction. Where it narrowed, the tales were less diverse, more consistent.</p>
			<p>But Achilles Desjardins had built a career out of seeing shapes in the clouds. The thing he saw now was beyond his experience.</p>
			<p>Rumors had their own classic epidemiology. Each started with a single germinating event. Information spread from that point, mutating and interbreeding⁠—a conical mass of threads, expanding into the future from the apex of their common birthplace. Eventually, of course, they’d wither and die; the cone would simply dissipate at its wide end, its permutations senescent and exhausted.</p>
			<p>There were exceptions, of course. Every now and then a single thread persisted, grew thick and gnarled and unkillable: conspiracy theories and urban legends, the hooks embedded in popular songs, the comforting Easter-bunny lies of religious doctrine. These were the memes: viral concepts, infections of conscious thought. Some flared and died like mayflies. Others lasted a thousand years or more, tricked billions into the endless propagation of parasitic half-truths.</p>
			<p><i>Lenie Clarke</i> was a meme, but a meme unlike any other. She had not extruded slowly from a birth point, as far as Desjardins could tell; she’d simply <i>appeared</i>, all over the datascape, wearing a thousand faces. There’d been no smooth divergence, no monotonic branching of informational variants. The variation had exploded too quickly to trace back to any single point.</p>
			<p>And ever since its appearance, all that variance had been⁠—<i>focusing⁠ ⁠…</i></p>
			<p>Two months ago Lenie Clarke had been an AI and a refugee terrorist and a prostitute messiah and other impossible things too numerous to count. Now, she was one thing and one thing only: the Mermaid of the Apocalypse. Oh, there was still variation; was she infested with incendiary nanotech, did she carry a bioengineered plague, had she brought back some apocalyptic microbe from the deep sea? Differences in detail, nothing more. The essential truth beneath it all had <i>converged</i>: the textbook conic had somehow flipped one-hundred-eighty impossible degrees, and Lenie Clarke had gone from a thousand faces to one. Now, she was only the end of the world.</p>
			<p>It was as though someone or something had offered the world a myriad styles, and the world had chosen the one it liked best. Veracity didn’t enter into such things; only <i>resonance</i> did.</p>
			<p>And the meme that defined Lenie Clarke as an angel of apocalypse wasn’t prospering because it <i>was</i> true; it was prospering because, insanely, people <i>wanted</i> it to be.</p>
			<p><i>I do not accept this,</i> Achilles Desjardins shouted to himself.</p>
			<p>But only part of him was listening. Another part, even if it hadn’t read Chomsky or Jung or Sheldrake⁠—who had time for dead guys anyway?⁠—at least had a basic understanding of what those guys had gone on about. Quantum nonlocality, quantum consciousness⁠—Desjardins had seen too many cases of mass coincidence to dismiss the idea that nine billion human minds could be imperceptibly <i>interconnected</i> somehow. He’d never really thought about it much, but on some level he’d believed in the Collective Unconscious for years.</p>
			<p>He just hadn’t realized that the fucking thing had a death wish.</p>
			<hr/>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Desjardins, this is Patricia Rowan. I’ve just received your message.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>Plain text, coming directly over his inlays, third-person invisible. Even in his head there was no picture, no sound, nothing that might visibly startle him. Nothing to cause obvious distraction should he happen to take this call in dangerous company.</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>I can be there within thirty hours. Until then it is imperative that you do nothing to arouse Lubin’s suspicions. Cooperate with him. Do not inform anyone else of his presence. Do NOT notify local authorities. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lubin’s behavior is governed by a conditioned threat-response reflex which requires special handling.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>
				<i>Oh, fuck.</i>
			</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>If you follow these instructions you will not be in danger. The reflex engages only in the event of a perceived security breach. Since he knows that your own behavior is governed by Guilt Trip, he’s unlikely to consider you a threat unless he thinks you may expose him in some way.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p><i>I’m screwed,</i> Desjardins thought.</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>By all means continue your analysis of Lenie Clarke and the rifter connection. We are putting our own people on it as well. Remain calm, and do not do anything to antagonize <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lubin. I’m sorry that I can’t be there sooner, but I’m presently off-continent, and the local transportation is quite limited.</p>
				<p>You’ve done the right thing, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Desjardins. I’m on my way.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p><i>Conditioned threat-response reflex</i>.</p>
			<p>He’d heard the rumors. Neither corpse nor civilian, he inhabited that outer circle of <i>need-to-know</i>: too peripheral for the inner sanctum, but close enough to hear things in passing. He’d heard about CTR.</p>
			<p>Guilt Trip was a stone axe: CTR was a scalpel. Where the Trip merely short-circuited the brain, CTR <i>controlled</i> it. Where GT disabled, CTR compelled. Apparently they’d learned the trick from some parasite that farthered its own life-cycle by hotwiring the behavioral circuitry of its host. Body-snatcher stuff. Subtle.</p>
			<p>You tied it to the same triggers, though. Guilt had the same seesaw signature no matter what its inspiration: norepinephrine went up, serotonin and acetylcholine went down, and⁠—whereas Achilles Desjardins would merely freeze up⁠—Ken Lubin would set forth on some complex, predestined behavioral dance. Like tying up security leaks with extreme prejudice, for example; there might be some flexibility in the means, but the act was compulsory.</p>
			<p>It went without saying that you didn’t find such hotwiring in glorified pipe-fitters, even if their beat <i>was</i> twenty thousand leagues under the sea. Ken Lubin was a whole lot more than a rifter.</p>
			<p>And right now he was opening the door to Desjardins’s cubby.</p>
			<p>Desjardins swallowed and turned in his chair.</p>
			<p>
				<i>I can be there within thirty hours.</i>
			</p>
			<p>
				<i>It is imperative that you do nothing to arouse Lubin’s suspicions.</i>
			</p>
			<p>
				<i>Remain calm.</i>
			</p>
			<p>“Took a stroll around the floor,” Lubin said. “To stretch my legs.”</p>
			<p>Desjardins made himself nod indifferently. “Okay.”</p>
			<p>Twenty-nine hours and fifty-eight minutes to go.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
