<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Beachhead</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter">
		<section id="chapter-1-21" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Beachhead</h3>
			<p>Either/or accused him from the main display. Desjardins stared back for as long as he dared, feeling his stomach drop away inside him. Then he broke and ran.</p>
			<p>The elevator disgorged him through the lobby into the real world. Canyons of glass and metal leaned overhead on all sides, keeping street-level in twilight; this deep in the bowels of metro-Sud, the sun only touched down for an hour a day.</p>
			<p>He descended into Pickering's Pile, looking for familiar faces and finding none. Gwen had left an invitation for him in the Pile's bulletin board, and he almost tripped it—</p>
			<p><i>Hey fellow mammal, I know this isn't exactly what you had in mind but I just need to</i> talk<i>, you know? I found a spot they haven't torched yet, they don't even know it exists but they will, it's</i> big<i>, it's way bigger than it has any right to be and the moment I tell them a few hundred thousand people get turned into ash—</i></p>
			<p>—but Guilt Trip rose in his throat like bile at the mere thought of such a breach. It tingled in his fingertips, ready to seize up motor nerves the moment he reached for the keypad. He'd tried racing it before, idle experimentation with no serious intent to subvert, but even then the Trip had been too fast for him. Volition's subconscious; the command is halfway down the arm before the little man behind your eyes even decides to move. <i>Executive summaries, after the fact</i>, Desjardins thought. <i>That's all we get. That's free will for you.</i></p>
			<p>He rose out of the Pile and headed for the nearest rapitrans station. And once there, kept walking. His rewired gray matter, stuck in frenetic overdrive, served up every irrelevant background detail in a relentless mesh of correlations: time-of-day vs. cloud cover vs. prevailing vehicular flow vs. out-of-stock warnings in streetside vending machines…</p>
			<p><i>How in God's name could this happen? The locals have had millions of years to fine-tune themselves to the neighborhood. How can they possibly get run over by something that evolved on the bottom of the goddamned</i> ocean?</p>
			<p>He knew the standard answer. Everyone did. The previous five centuries had been a accelerating litany of invasions, whole ecosystems squashed and replaced by exotics with more than enough attitude to make up for their lack of seniority. There were over seventy thousand usurper species at large in N'Am alone, and N'Am was better off than most. You'd be more likely to see space aliens than any of <i>Australia's</i> has-been marsupials, outside of a gene bank.</p>
			<p>But this was different. Cane toads and starlings and zebra mussels might have filled the world with their weedy progeny, but even they had limits. You'd never find <i>Hydrilla</i> on top of Everest. Fire ants weren't ever going to set up shop on the Juan de Fuca Ridge. Chemistry, pressure, temperature—too many barriers, too many physical extremes that would tear the very cells of a complex invader into fragments.</p>
			<p>A petroleum silhouette blocked his way: a human shadow with featureless white eyes. Desjardins started, stared into that vacant façade for a moment that slowed to treacle. Unbidden, his wetware reduced the vision to a point in a data cloud he hadn't even known he was collecting: half-registered sightings during his daily commute; black shapes caught in the backgrounds of N'AmWire crowd shots; fashion banners advertising the latest styles in <i>wet midnight</i>.</p>
			<p><i>Rifter chic, she said. Solidarity through fashion. It's on the rise.</i></p>
			<p>All in a split-second. The apparition ducked around him and continued on its way.</p>
			<p>Sudbury's metropolitan canyons had subsided about him while he'd been walking. Endless sheets of kudzu4 draped closer to street-level from the rooftops, framing windows and vents with viridian foliage. The new and improved part of him started to ballpark a carbon-consumption estimate under current cloud-cover; he managed, with effort, to shut it up. He'd always wondered if the vines would be as easy to kill off as everyone expected, once they'd finished sucking up the previous century's excesses. Kudzu had been a tough mother to begin with, even before all the tinkering that had turned it into God's own carbon sink. And there was all sorts of outbreeding and lateral gene transfer going on these days, uncontrolled, unstoppable. Give the weed another ten years and it'd be immune to anything short of a flamethrower.</p>
			<p>Now, for the first time, that didn't seem to matter. In ten years kudzun might be the least of <i>anyone's</i> problems.</p>
			<p>It sure as hell wouldn't matter much to those poor bastards on the Strip.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>They'd built this model.</p>
			<p>It wasn't a <i>real</i> model, of course. They didn't know enough about how Behemoth worked for that. There was no clockwork inside, nothing that led logically from <i>cause</i> to <i>effect</i>. It was just a nest of correlations, really. An n-dimensional cloud with a least-squares trajectory weaving through its heart. It guzzled data at one end: at the other it shat out a prediction. Soil moisture's 13%, weather's been clear for five days straight, porphyrins are down and micromethane's up over half a hectare of dirt in a Tillamook shipyard? That's Behemoth country, my friend—and tomorrow, if it doesn't rain, there's an 80% chance that it'll shrink to half its present size.</p>
			<p>Why? Anyone's guess. But that's pretty much what's happened before under similar conditions.</p>
			<p>Rowan's field data had started them down the right path, but it was the fires that had given them an edge: each of those magnesium telltales shouted <i>Hey! Over here!</i> all the way up to geosynch. Then it was just a matter of calling up the Landsat archives for those locations, scrolling back five, six months from ignition. Sometimes you wouldn't find anything—none of the residential blazes had yielded anything useful. Sometimes the data had been lost, purged or corrupted by the usual forces of entropy. Sometimes, though—along coastlines, or in undeveloped industrial lots where heavy machinery loitered between assignments—the spec lines would change over time, photoabsorption creeping down the 680nm band, soil O2 fading just a touch, a whiff of acid showing up on distance pH. If you waited long enough you could even see the change in visible light. Weeds and grasses, so tough that the usual oils and effluents had long since given up trying to kill them, would slowly wilt and turn brown.</p>
			<p>With those signatures in hand, Desjardins had begun to wean himself from blatant incendiary cues and search farther afield. It was a pretty flimsy construct, but it would've done until Jovellanos came up with a better angle. In the meantime it had been a lot better than nothing.</p>
			<p>Until now. Now it was a lot worse. Now it was saying that Behemoth owned a ten-kilometer stretch of the Oregon coast.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Sudbury was dressed up for the night by the time he got back to his apartment: a jumble of neon and sodium and laser spilled through his windows, appreciably dimmer now that the latest restrictions had kicked in. Mandelbrot tripped him up as he crossed the threshold, then stalked into the kitchen and yowled at the kibble dispenser. The dispenser, programmed for preset feeding times, refused to dignify the cat with an answer.</p>
			<p>Desjardins dropped onto the sofa and stared unseeing at the cityscape.</p>
			<p><i>You should have known</i>, he told himself.</p>
			<p>He had known. Maybe he just hadn't quite believed it. And it hadn't been his doing, those other times. He'd just been following the trail, seeing where <i>others</i> had taken the necessary steps, feeding all those data through his models and filters for the greater good. Always for the greater good.</p>
			<p>This time, though, there'd been no fire. The forces of containment hadn't found out about the Strip yet. So far they'd just been covering their own tracks, sterilizing every—</p>
			<p>–<i>body</i>—</p>
			<p>—everything that had come into contact with the source. But they didn't know how to identify Behemoth directly, not from a distance. That was his job, and Jovellanos'.</p>
			<p>And now it looked like the two of them had succeeded. Desjardins reflected on the difference between following a trail of ashes and blazing one's own.</p>
			<p><i>Shouldn't matter. It's not like you're firing the flamethrower.</i></p>
			<p><i>Just aiming it</i>.</p>
			<p>Guilt Trip paced in his gut like a caged animal, looking for something to tear into.</p>
			<p><i>Well? Do your job, for Christ's sake! Tell me what to</i> do!</p>
			<p>Guilt Trip didn't work like that, of course. It was all stick and no carrot, a neurochemical censor that pounced on the slightest twinge of guilt, or conscience, or—for the mechanists in the audience—sheer amoral <i>fear-of-getting-caught-with-your-hand-in-the-cookie-jar</i>. You could call it whatever you wanted; labels didn't change the side chains and peptide bonds and carboxyl whatsits that made it work. Guilt was a neurotransmitter. Morality was a chemical. And the things that made nerves fire, muscles move, tongues wag—those were all chemicals too. It had only been a matter of time before someone figured out how to tie them all together.</p>
			<p>Guilt Trip kept you from making the wrong decision, and Absolution let you live with yourself after making the right one. But you had to at least <i>think</i> you knew what <i>right</i> was, before either of them could kick in. They only reacted to gut feeling.</p>
			<p>He'd never lamented the Trip's lack of direction before. He'd never needed it. Sure, it would freeze him in an instant if he tried to hack his own credit rating, but in terms of actual caseload it rarely did more than nudge him toward the blindingly obvious. Lose-lose situations were his stock-in-trade. Amputate the part or lose the whole? Nasty, but obvious. Kill ten to save a hundred? Wring your hands, bite the bullet, get stoned afterward. But never any question about what to <i>do</i>.</p>
			<p><i>How many people did I seal off to keep a lid on that brucellosis outbreak in Argentina? How many did I flood out in TongKing when I cut the power to their sumps?</i></p>
			<p>Necessary steps had never bothered him before. Not like this. <i>Alice and all her snide comments about seeing the world in black-and-white. Bullshit. I saw the grays, I saw</i> millions <i>of grays. I just knew how to pick the lightest shade.</i></p>
			<p>Not any more.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>He could pinpoint the moment that things had changed, almost to the second: when he'd seen a 'scaphe built for the deep sea and a cockpit built for the near sky, locked together in a desperate embrace, falling.</p>
			<p>It had not been a commercial lifter on a routine flight; he'd checked the records. Officially, nothing had fallen into the Pacific at the heart of the Big One, because—officially—nothing had been there to fall. It had been sent secretly to Ground Zero, and then it had been shot down.</p>
			<p>It made no sense that the same authority would have committed both acts.</p>
			<p>That implied factions in opposition. It implied profound disagreement over what constituted the greater good (or the <i>Interests of the Overlords</i>, which Jovellanos insisted was all the Trip <i>really</i> ensured). Someone in the bureaucratic stratosphere—someone who knew far more about Behemoth than did Achilles Desjardins—had tried to evacuate the rifters before the quake. Apparently they'd felt that pre-emptive murder was not justified in the name of containment.</p>
			<p>And someone else had stopped them.</p>
			<p>Which side was Rowan affiliated with? Who was <i>right</i>?</p>
			<p>He hadn't told Jovellanos about the 'scaphe. He'd even done a passable job of forgetting about it himself, keeping things nice and simple, focusing on the mouse at hand until the whale on the horizon became a vague blur, almost invisible. He'd known in the back of his mind he wouldn't be able to keep it up for long; eventually they'd come up with a reliable index, some combination of distance spec and moisture and pH that pointed the finger at the invader. But he hadn't expected it so soon. They'd been working with old data, shipyard samples contaminated by industrial effluents, potential incursions three or four hectares large at most. Noise-to-signal problems alone should have held them back for weeks.</p>
			<p>But you didn't need much rez to catch a beachhead ten kilometers long. Desjardins had kept his eyes down, and the whale on the horizon had run right into him.</p>
			<p>Mandelbrot stood in the doorway, stretching. Claws extruded from their sheaths like tiny scimitars.</p>
			<p>"<i>You</i> wouldn't have any trouble at all," Desjardins said. "You'd just go for maximum damage, right?"</p>
			<p>Mandelbrot purred.</p>
			<p>Desjardins buried his face in his hands. <i>So what do I do now? Figure things out for</i> myself<i>?</i></p>
			<p>He realized, with some surprise, that the prospect wouldn't have always seemed so absurd.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
