<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Womb</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-1-29" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Womb</h3>
			<p>The lies drove Clarke into the water.</p>
			<p>She’d sat around that foldaway table with Gord and Tracy, eating supper from the cycler. It was a high-end model, and the bricks it laid were much tastier than the ones she’d eaten back on the Strip. She’d concentrated on that small pleasure as Gord had run his fingers through his daughter’s hair, made affectionate cooing daddy’s-little-girl-sounds, each gesture containing⁠—what? Clarke knew the signs, she <i>thought</i> she knew the signs, but this fucker was damned good when there were witnesses around; she hadn’t seen a single thing that proved what was lurking underneath. He could’ve been any father, loving his daughter the <i>right</i> way.</p>
			<p>Whatever that was.</p>
			<p>His display, not to mention his incessant small talk, had driven her outside. <i>Gordon</i> had seemed almost relieved when Clarke grabbed her knapsack and stepped into the night. Now she stood looking down through a motionless tract of liquid glacier, deep and inviting and flooded with amplified moonlight. Her eyecaps transmuted the surrounding forest to gunmetal and silver in high contrast. Her reflection in the still water, once again, was⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p>… moving⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p>… and the same old bullshit started again, as something in her brain began serving up another happy lie about loving parents and warm fuzzy childhood nights⁠—</p>
			<p>She was on her knees, tearing through her knapsack.</p>
			<p>She got the hood on, felt the neck seal fuse against her tunic. There were other accessories, of course, fins and sleeves and leggings, but there was no time⁠—she was six years old and being tucked in and nothing bad was going to happen to her, nothing at all, by now she fucking <i>knew</i> it, and she wasn’t going to put up with <i>that</i> shit any more, not so long as there was the ghost of a chance⁠—</p>
			<p>—<i>it started when I came back up maybe if I go back</i> down⁠—</p>
			<p>She didn’t even take off her clothes.</p>
			<p>The water hit her like an electrical shock. Freezing and viscous, it flayed her bare arms and legs, fired icy needles along crotch and shoulders before the ‘skin of her tunic clamped around her limbs to seal the breach. The canister of vacuum in her chest sucked all her air away. Welcome icewater surged in its place.</p>
			<p>She dropped like a stone. Watery moonlight faded with each second; pressure amassed. Her exposed limbs burned, then ached, then went dead.</p>
			<p>Curled into a ball, she bumped against the bottom. Grit and rotten pine needles rose in a small cloud.</p>
			<p>She couldn’t feel her arms and legs; they’d be dying now, by degrees. Their blood vessels had squeezed down the moment she’d hit the water, an autonomic self-sacrifice to keep body heat in the core. No oxygen making it through those constricted avenues. No warmth. The edges of her body were freezing to death. In a way, it was almost comforting.</p>
			<p>She wondered how long she could push it.</p>
			<p>At least she’d gotten away from that fucking monster Gord.</p>
			<p><i>If that’s what he is. How could I prove it, absolutely? He could explain it all away, fathers</i> are <i>allowed to touch their children, after all⁠ ⁠…</i></p>
			<p>But there was no such thing as absolute proof. There was only proof beyond a reasonable doubt. And Lenie Clarke, Lenie Clarke had been there. She <i>knew</i>.</p>
			<p>So did that little girl, Tracy. She was up there alone. With him.</p>
			<p>Someone should do something about that.</p>
			<p>
				<i>So what are you now: judge, jury, executioner?</i>
			</p>
			<p>She thought about it a bit.</p>
			<p>
				<i>Who better?</i>
			</p>
			<p>She couldn’t feel her legs. But they still moved at her command.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
