<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Remora</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-1-14" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Remora</h3>
			<p>The lock groaned open like the gates of an iron cathedral. Earthquakes lived in that sound, twisting metal, skyscrapers torqued painfully on their axes. Slow surge pushed flotsam from great doors that stirred the ocean.</p>
			<p>Rising within that sound, another one: triple screws, cavitating.</p>
			<p>She’d placed herself a few hundred meters offshore, in the center of a dredged scar leading to deep water. Gray’s Harbor’s commercial traffic passed directly overhead. By now she’d had enough practice to make it work. She rose a few meters off the bottom; the drag from the new backpack slowed her a bit, but she was getting used to it. Echosounding pulses from the approaching vessel tapped against her implants. The murky water went suddenly, ominously dark⁠—first to her right, then directly overhead. The water pushed her backwards . An instant later a black wall, studded with rivets, rushed obliquely out of the murk and streamed past, filling the ocean. The hiss of approaching screws filled the water.</p>
			<p>She’d counted herself lucky, so far, that none of the ships had smashed into her. She knew those odds were low⁠—bow waves pushed water and flotsam aside⁠—but such reassuring insights always occurred during quiet moments on the bottom. Now, with a cliff of motion-blurred metal within touching distance, she could only think of flyswatters.</p>
			<p>She broke the surface; the cliff shimmered into sudden sharp focus, black and rusty-red, a great concave overhang eclipsing three-quarters of the sky. An ice-wrangler. She turned to face the approaching stern. Racing toward her, edge-on, a metal fin angled down and out from the hull just above the waterline. Foam boiled where its distal end cut the water.</p>
			<p>A trim tab. It could give her a free ride, or take off her head. If she floated along the surface⁠—just past the point where the metal slashed the sea⁠—the tip of the fin would pass beneath her. There’d be a split-second to grab at the leading edge.</p>
			<p>Maybe ten seconds to get into position.</p>
			<p>She almost made it.</p>
			<p>Her right hand hooked the fin; the left slid off, confounded by turbulence. In an instant the tab was past, taking Clarke’s hand with it. Everything went bowstring-taut in an instant. Her right shoulder popped from its socket. Clarke tried to scream. Her flooded amphibian body drowned the sound at conception.</p>
			<p>She drew her left arm forward. Drag slapped it back. She tried again. The muscles of her right shoulder screamed in outrage. Her left hand crept upstream along the surface of the tab; finally its fingers found the leading edge, hooked reflexively.</p>
			<p>Her shoulder popped back into place. Those muscles, never satisfied, screamed all over again.</p>
			<p>A cascade of water and foam tried to push her off. The wrangler was moving dead slow and she was barely hanging on. They’d be opening the throttle the moment they past the last channel-marker.</p>
			<p>She edged laterally up the slope. Seawater thinned to spray; then she was clear, lying against the main hull. She split her face seal; her lung reinflated with a tired sigh.</p>
			<p>The tab angled down at about twenty degrees. Clarke propped her back against the hull and brought her knees up, planting her feet downslope. She was wedged securely a good two meters from the water; the soles of her fins provided more than enough traction to keep her from slipping.</p>
			<p>The outermost channel spar slid past. The vessel began picking up speed. Clarke kept one eye on the shore, the other on her nav panel. It didn’t take long for the readings to change.</p>
			<p>At last. <i>This</i> one was turning north. She relaxed.</p>
			<p>The Strip scrolled slowly past in the distance, backed by the vertebral spikes of its eastern towers. At this range she could barely make out movement on shore; diffuse patches in vague motion, at best. Clouds of flightless gnats.</p>
			<p>She thought of Amitav, the anorexic. The only one with the balls to come right out and openly hate her.</p>
			<p>She wished him well.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
