<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-CA">
	<head>
		<title>Eclipse</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-1-30" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Eclipse</h3>
			<p>“She’s strange,” Tracy said while they cleaned up at the sink.</p>
			<p>Her dad smiled. “She’s probably just hurting a lot, honey. The quake hurt a <i>lot</i> of people, you know, and when you’re in pain it’s easy to be thoughtless. She just needs some time alone, I bet. You know, compared to some people we were actually pretty⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>He didn’t finish. That happened a lot now.</p>
			<p>Lenie still hadn’t come back at bedtime. Tracy got into her PJs and climbed into bed with her dad. She lay on her side, with her back against his stomach.</p>
			<p>“That’s right, little Lima Bean.” Dad cuddled her and stroked her hair. “You go to sleep now. Little Lima Bean.”</p>
			<p>It was dark in the cabin, and so quiet outside. No wind to rustle Tracy off to sleep. Moonbeams sneaked in through the window and made a piece of the floor glow with soft silver light. After a while her dad started snoring. She liked the way he smelled. Tracy’s eyelids were getting heavy. She closed her eyes to comfy slits, watching the moonbeams on the floor. Almost like her “Nermal the Nematode” night-light at home.</p>
			<p>Home was where Mom had⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p>Where⁠—</p>
			<p>The night-light dimmed. Tracy opened her eyes.</p>
			<p>Lenie was looking in through the window, blocking the moonbeams. Her shadow ate up most of the light on the floor. Her face was in shadow, too; Tracy could only see her eyes, cold and pale and almost <i>glowing</i> a little, like snow. Lenie didn’t move for a long time. She just stood there, outside, looking in.</p>
			<p>Looking at Tracy.</p>
			<p>Tracy didn’t know how she knew that. She didn’t know how Lenie could look into the darkest corner of a dark cabin in the middle of the night and find her there, curled up against her dad, eyes wide and staring. Lenie’s eyes were covered. Tracy wouldn’t have been able to see which way they were looking even in broad daylight.</p>
			<p>It didn’t matter. Tracy knew: Lenie was looking <i>right through the darkness. Right at her.</i></p>
			<p>“Daddy,” she whispered, and her dad mumbled something in his sleep and gave her a squeeze, but he didn’t wake up.</p>
			<p><i>“Daddy,”</i> she whispered again, afraid to speak up. Afraid to scream.</p>
			<p>The moonbeams were back.</p>
			<p>Across the cabin, the door opened without a sound. Lenie stepped inside. Even in the dark her outlines seemed too smooth, too empty. It was like she’d taken off all her clothes and there was nothing but blackness underneath.</p>
			<p>One of her hands was holding something. The other went to her lips.</p>
			<p>“<i>Shhh</i>,” she said.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
