<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Stockpile</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-1-17" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Stockpile</h3>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>Vancity CU/N’AmPac Transaction Server</p>
				<p>Personal Accounts, Broadway ATM-45, 50/10/05/0551</p>
				<p>Transaction Begins:</p>
				<p>Welcome to VanCity. Are you a member?</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“I couldn’t link, before. Using my watch.”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>Remote access curfew is in effect until 10:00 <abbr>a.m.</abbr> At present this terminal can only process on-site transactions. We apologise for any inconvenience. Are you a member?</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“Lenie Clarke.”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>Welcome, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Ms.</abbr> Clarke. Please remove your corneal overlays.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“What?”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>We cannot open your account without eyeprint confirmation. Please remove your corneal overlays.</p>
				<p>Thank you. Scanning.</p>
				<p>Complete. Thank you, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Ms.</abbr> Clarke. You may proceed.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“What’s my total balance?”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>$Q42,329.15</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“I want to download it all.”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>Has Vancity’s service been satisfactory?</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“It’s been fine.”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>We can see your wristwatch, and a subcutaneous money-chip in your left thigh. How would you like the funds distributed?</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“Forty thousand sub-q, the rest to the watch. Automatic transfer of all funds sub-q if I’m attacked.”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>That condition can’t be evaluated. Your watch is not equipped with a biotelemetry plug-in.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“Automatic transfer on voice-linked password, then.”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>What password?</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“Sh⁠—shadow⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>Please repeat the password.</p>
				<p>Please repeat the password.</p>
				<p>Please⁠—</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“I said, <i>shadow</i>.”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>Done. Would you like another transaction?</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>(inaudible)</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>Vancity thanks you for your business.</p>
				<p>Transaction ends</p>
			</blockquote>
			<hr/>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>Sears Medbooth 199/Granville Island/Hongcouver</p>
				<p>Transaction record, vocal, 50/10/05/0923</p>
				<p>(Test results filed separately.)</p>
				<p>Session begins:</p>
				<p>Welcome to Sears Medical Services. Please open your account.</p>
				<p>Thank you. Do you wish to limit your charges?</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“No.”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>What can we do for you today?</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“My right shoulder. Sprained or broken or something. And a blood scan. Paths especially.”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>Please provide blood sample.</p>
				<p>Thank you. Please provide your medical history or your WestHem ID#.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“Forget it.”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>Access to your medical records will help us provide better service. All information will be kept strictly confidential except in the event of a public health or marketing priority, and in such cases we may be legally required to sequence-ID your sample anyway.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“I’ll take my chances. No thanks.”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>Your shoulder has been recently dislocated, but is presently reseated. You will continue to experience pain and stiffness for approximately two months without treatment. You will experience reduced mobility for at least a year without treatment. Would you like treatment for the pain?</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“Yeah.”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>We’re sorry, but recent heavy user demand has depleted our stock of painkillers. Anabolic accelerants can reduce the healing period to three to five days. Shall I administer anabolic accelerants?</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“Sure.”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>We’re sorry, but recent heavy user demand has depleted our stock of accelerants. Your blood shows minor deficiencies in calcium and trace-sulfur. You have elevated levels of the hormones serotonin, oxytocin, and cortisol; elevated platelet and antibody counts consistent with moderate physical injury within the past three weeks. None of these findings should cause you serious concern, although the mineral deficiencies may reflect poor dietary habits. Would you like dietary mineral supplements?</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“You actually have any?”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>Sears medbooths are regularly maintained and resupplied to ensure that you have reliable access to the best in quality medical care. Would you like dietary supplements?</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“No.”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>Cellular metabolites are high. Your blood lactate is low. Blood gases and amine count⁠—</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“What about diseases?”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>All pathogen counts are within documented safe ranges.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“You sure?”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>The standard blood panel tests for over eight hundred known pathogens and parasites. More extensive analysis is available for a small additional charge, but the analysis would take up to six hours. Would you like⁠—</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“No, I⁠—but that can’t be <i>it</i>, I mean⁠—is that it?”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>Is there some specific symptom that concerns you?</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“Aren’t there some kinds of infections that cause hallucinations?”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>Can you describe these hallucinations?</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“Visions only. No sound or smell or anything. I’ve been having them for a few weeks now, on and off. Once every few days, maybe. They go away by themselves, after a minute or two.”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>And can you describe what you see in these visions?</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“Who cares? It’s just bad biochemistry, right? Can’t you do a brain scan or something?”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>The NMR helmet in this booth is presently out of service, and there are no detectable psychoactives in your blood. However, different conditions can give rise to different types of hallucinations, so I may still be able to offer a diagnosis. Can you describe what you see in your visions?</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“A monster.”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>Could you be more specific?</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“This is bullshit. You think I don’t know you charge by the second?”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>Our rates are strictly</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“Tell me what’s wrong with me or I disconnect.”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>I don’t have enough information for a proper diagnosis.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“Speculate.”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>Neurological damage is a strong possibility. Strokes⁠—even very small ones that you may not be consciously aware of⁠—can sometimes trigger visual-release hallucinations.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“Strokes? Ruptured blood vessels, that kind of thing?”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>Yes. Have you recently undergone a rapid change in ambient pressure? For example, have you spent some time at high altitude or in an orbital environment, or perhaps returned from an underwater excursion?</p>
				<p>Client disconnect 50/10/05/0932</p>
				<p>Session ends.</p>
			</blockquote>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
