<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-CA">
	<head>
		<title>Corpse</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-1-8" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Corpse</h3>
			<p>It was no big deal, of course. Someone died every half-second, according to the stats. Some of them <i>had</i> to die on his shift. So what? On any given day, Achilles Desjardins saved ten people for every one he killed. Anybody who wanted to complain about those kind of stats could go fuck themselves.</p>
			<p>Actually, that was pretty much what <i>he</i> wanted to do just then. If only the clientele wasn’t so bloody TwenCen.</p>
			<p>Pickering’s Pile was a cylinder inside a cube, sunk fifty meters into the scoured granite of the Canadian Shield. The cube had been built as a repository for nuclear waste just before the permafrost had started melting; NIMBY and the northward spread of civilization had denied it that destiny. The same factors, however, had made it a profitable site for a subterranean drink’n’drug. The Pile had been constructed within a transparent three-story acrylic tube suspended in the main chamber; the space beyond had been flooded and stacked with lightsticks mimicking the cobalt glow of spent fuel rods. Iridescent butterflies flittered about, their wings bouncing data back and forth in pinpoint sparkles. Poison-arrow frogs clambered wetly in little tanks at each table, tiny glistening jigsaws of emerald and ruby and petroleum-black.</p>
			<p>It was peaceful down there. The Pile was an inside-out aquarium, a cool green grotto. Desjardins descended into its depths whenever he needed a lift. Now he sat at the circular bar on the second level and wondered how to avoid sex with the woman at his elbow.</p>
			<p>He knew the subject was going to come up. Not because he was particularly good-looking, which he wasn’t. Not because his last name made people think he was <i>Quebecois</i>, which he had been, once. No, he’d been targeted because he’d admitted to this dark leggy Rorschach⁠—Gwen, she’d called herself⁠—that he was a ‘lawbreaker, and she thought that was <i>cool</i>. She didn’t seem to recognize him from his brief flash of media stardom; that had been nearly two years ago, and people these days seemed hard-pressed to remember what they’d had for supper the night before. It didn’t matter. Achilles Desjardins had acquired a fan.</p>
			<p>Not that she was a bad<i>-looking</i> fan, mind you. Thirty seconds into their conversation he’d started wondering what she’d look like bent over the ottoman in his living room. Thirty seconds after <i>that</i> he’d mentally sketched out a pretty good artist’s conception. He wanted her, all right; he just didn’t want <i>her</i>.</p>
			<p>Oddly, she was dressed like one of those deep-diving cyborgs out of N’AmPac.</p>
			<p>The disguise was evocative, if superficial: a black lycra body stocking extending seamlessly from toes to neck to fingertips; decorative accessories representing suit controls and outcroppings of implanted hardware; even an ID patch with the Grid Authority logo beveled onto the shoulder. The eyes didn’t quite work, though. Real rifters wore corneal overlays that turned their eyes into blank white balls. Gwen was wearing some sort of gauzy oversize contacts instead. They masked the irises well enough, but judging by the way she had to keep leaning in to stare at him they weren’t cutting it in the photoamp department.</p>
			<p>She had great cheekbones, though, a wide mouth, lips so sharply-defined you could cut yourself on their edges. Her company in this casual and public venue was all he wanted. Enough time to learn the features, savor the smells, commit her to memory. Maybe even make friends. That would be more than enough; he could fill in the blanks himself, later. Fire them, too.</p>
			<p>“I can’t believe how much you have to deal with,” she was saying. A wriggling mesh of undersea light played across her face. “The plagues, the blights, the system crashes. All your responsibility.”</p>
			<p>“Not <i>all</i> mine. There’s a bunch of us.”</p>
			<p>“Still. Life-and-death decisions. Split-second timing.” Her hand brushed his forearm; the wing of a black moth. “Lives lost if you make the wrong move.”</p>
			<p>“Or even the right one, sometimes.” He’d met lots of Gwens before. Like any K-selecting mammalian female, she was attracted to resource-holders⁠—or more proximately in the case of genus <i>Homo</i>, power. She probably assumed, because he could shut down a city at will, that he must have some.</p>
			<p>A common mistake among K-selectors. Desjardins generally took his time about disabusing them.</p>
			<p>She grabbed a derm from a nearby tray, looked inquiringly at Desjardins. He shook his head. He had to be careful what recreational chemicals he stuck into his body; too many potential interactions with the professional ones already bubbling away in there. Gwen shrugged, stuck the derm behind her ear.</p>
			<p>“How do you handle the responsibility?” she went on. “Hell, how do you even <i>get</i> the responsibility?” She tossed back her drink. “All the corpses and kings and policy-makers, they can’t even agree what color to paint the bathrooms at the UR. Why’d they all agree to give Godlike powers to <i>you</i>, exactly? You infallible or something?”</p>
			<p>“Fuck no.” Fleeting across his cortex, an unwelcome thought: <i>I wonder how many people I killed today.</i> “I just⁠—I do my best.”</p>
			<p>“Yeah, but how do you even convince them of <i>that</i>? What’s to stop you from crashing an airplane to get back at your boss? How do they know you’re not going to use all that power to get rich, or to help out your buddies, or kill a corporation because you don’t agree with its politics? What keeps you in line?”</p>
			<p>Desjardins shook his head. “You wouldn’t believe it.”</p>
			<p>“Bet I can guess.”</p>
			<p>“So guess.”</p>
			<p>“Guilt Trip, right? And Absolution?”</p>
			<p>He laughed to cover his surprise.</p>
			<p>Gwen laughed with him, reached into the nearest terrarium and stroked one of the jeweled frogs inside (they’d been tweaked to secrete mild psychoactives through the skin). Her shoulder was against his by the end of the maneuver. She waved off a couple of butterflies that were sniffing her for signs of actionable impairment. “I hate those things.”</p>
			<p>“Well, you <i>are</i> mixing your chemicals a bit. Not too good for the ambience if you throw up all over the bar.”</p>
			<p>“Aren’t <i>you</i> all lawnorder.” She rubbed thumb against forefinger to grind the frog juice into her skin. “Not to mention avoiding the subject.”</p>
			<p>“Subject?”</p>
			<p>“Guilt Trip, remember?” She leaned in close: “I hear things, you hear things. Some sort of retrovirus, right? Forces you to behave yourself, right down in the brainstem.”</p>
			<p>She was guessing. She didn’t know about the chemistry of guilt. Tell her about the interaction of GSH and synaptic vesicle and she’d probably give you a blank look. She didn’t know about <i>Toxoplasma</i> tweaks or the little ass-backwards blobs of reverse transcriptase that got the whole ball rolling. She didn’t know, and even if she <i>did</i>, she didn’t. You couldn’t know about that stuff until you actually felt it in you.</p>
			<p><i>Retrovirus</i> was all she knew, and she wasn’t even sure about that.</p>
			<p>“Nope,” he told her. “Wrong. Sorry.” He wasn’t even lying. The virus was only the carrier.</p>
			<p>She rolled her eyes. “I <i>knew</i> you wouldn’t tell me. They <i>nev</i>⁠—I <i>knew</i> it.”</p>
			<p>“So why the diver getup?” Suddenly, changing the subject seemed like a good idea.</p>
			<p>“Rifter chic.” The corner of her mouth lifted in a half-smile. “Solidarity through fashion.”</p>
			<p>“What, rifters are political now?”</p>
			<p>She seemed to perk up a bit. “You remember. You can’t spend <i>all</i> your time saving the world.”</p>
			<p>He didn’t. And there <i>had</i> been a bit of a flap a few months before, after some ferret-nosed journalist had managed to sneak the story past the N’AmWire censors. Turned out the GA’d been recruiting incest victims and war vets to run their deep-sea geothermal stations⁠—the theory being, those best suited to the chronic stress of that environment were those who’d been (how had the spinners put it?) <i>preconditioned</i> since childhood. There’d been the usual squeals of public outrage, everything from <i>how dare you exploit society’s victims for the sake of a few Megawatts</i> to <i>how dare you turn the power grid over to a bunch of psychos and post-trauma head cases</i>.</p>
			<p>It had been quite the scandal for a while. But then some new strain of equine encephalitis had swept through the Strip, and someone had traced it to a bad batch of contraceptives in the cyclers. And now, of course, with everybody still reeling after the Quake out west, people had pretty much forgotten the rifters and their problems.</p>
			<p>At least, he’d thought they had. But now there was this woman at his side, and whatever outlets she took her fashion cues from⁠—</p>
			<p>“Listen,” she said. “I bet you get tired, fighting the forces of entropy all the time. Want to take a break and <i>obey</i> the second law of thermodynamics for a change?”</p>
			<p>“Entropy’s not a force. Common misconception.”</p>
			<p>“Stop talking so much. They’ve got rooms downstairs. I’ll pay for the first hour.”</p>
			<p>Desjardins sighed.</p>
			<p>“What?” Gwen said. “Don’t tell me you’re not interested⁠—your vitals have been horning up since the moment I arrived.” She tapped one of the accessories on her outfit⁠—a biotelemetry pickup, he noticed belatedly.</p>
			<p>He shrugged. “True enough.”</p>
			<p>“So what’s the problem? Didn’t take your pills today? I’m clean.” She showed him the tattoos on her inner wrist; she’d been immunized against an arsenal.</p>
			<p>“Actually, I⁠—I just don’t go out much.”</p>
			<p>“No shit. Come on.” Gwen laid a hand firmly on his arm.</p>
			<p>“For two reasons,” said a female voice at his back, “I’m guessing that Killjoy here is about to turn you down. Don’t take it personally.”</p>
			<p>Desjardins briefly closed his eyes. “I thought you didn’t indulge.”</p>
			<p>One-point-seven meters of skinny trouble-making Filipino stepped into view. “I’m Alice,” she said to Gwen.</p>
			<p>“Gwen,” said Gwen to Alice.</p>
			<p>“Reason number one,” Jovellanos continued, “is that he’s just been called in.”</p>
			<p>“You’re kidding,” Desjardins said. “I just got <i>off</i>.”</p>
			<p>“Sorry. They want you back in, let’s see⁠—” Jovellanos glanced at her wrist⁠—“seven minutes now. Some corpse actually flew out from N’AmPac just to see you in person. You can imagine their frustration when they discovered you’d turned your watch off.”</p>
			<p>“It’s past curfew. Just being a good citizen.” Which was utter detritus, of course: ‘lawbreakers were exempt from such restrictions. Sometimes Desjardins just didn’t want to be found.</p>
			<p>Obviously a forlorn hope. He pushed himself back from the bar and stood up, spreading his hands in a gesture of surrender. “Sorry. Nice meeting you, though.”</p>
			<p>“Reason number two,” Gwen said to Jovellanos, ignoring him.</p>
			<p>“Oh, right. Killjoy here doesn’t fuck <i>real</i> people. Considers it disrespectful.” Jovellanos tilted her head in his direction, a fractional bow. “Not that he doesn’t have the instincts, of course. I bet he’s been taking stereos of you since the moment you sat down.”</p>
			<p>Gwen looked an amused challenge at him.</p>
			<p>Desjardins shrugged. “I’ll wipe ’em if you’ve got any objections. I was going to ask anyway.”</p>
			<p>She shook her head; that enticing half-smile played faintly across her face. “Have fun. Maybe they’ll even get you interested in the real thing after a while.”</p>
			<p>“Better hope not,” Jovellanos remarked. “You probably wouldn’t like what he’s into.”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p><i>Complex Systems Instability-Response Authority</i>: the words hung at the back of the lobby like a glowing uvula, a vain and bureaucratic demand for respect. Nobody ever bothered to speak them aloud, of course; few even shortened it down to <i>CSIRA</i>, which the corpses would gladly have settled for. Nope. <i>The Entropy Patrol</i>. That was the name that had stuck. You could almost <i>see</i> the space-cadet uniforms. Desjardins had always thought that saving the world should engender a bit more respect.</p>
			<p>“What makes you such an <i>enculé</i> today?” he grumbled as they stepped into the elevator.</p>
			<p>Jovellanos blinked. “Sorry?”</p>
			<p>“That whole scene back there.”</p>
			<p>“Don’t you believe in truth in advertising? You don’t hide any of that stuff. Mostly.”</p>
			<p>“I like to control the flow rate, though. Jesus.” He punched <i>Admin-6</i>. “Your timing was shitty.”</p>
			<p>“My timing was great. They want you upstairs <i>now</i>, Killjoy. I don’t think I’ve ever seen Lertzman quite so <i>invested</i> in anything before. If I’d waited for you to go through your usual non-mating dance we’d have been down there ‘til the icecaps refroze. Besides, you’ve got a real problem saying no. You could’ve ended up fucking her just to keep from hurting her feelings.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t think her feelings are all that fragile.”</p>
			<p>“So what? Yours are.”</p>
			<p>The doors opened. Desjardins stepped through. Jovellanos hung back.</p>
			<p>He looked at her, a trifle impatiently. “I thought we were in a hurry.”</p>
			<p>She shook her head. “<i>You</i> are. I’m not cleared for this. They just sent me to get you.”</p>
			<p>“What?”</p>
			<p>“Just you.”</p>
			<p>“That’s bullshit, Alice.”</p>
			<p>“They’re being paranoid about this, Killjoy. I told you. <i>Invested</i>.”</p>
			<p>The doors slid shut.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>He stuck his finger into the bloodhound, winced at a brief stabbing pain. A physical sample. They weren’t even trusting distance spec today.</p>
			<p>After a moment an executive summary scrolled down the wall in three columns. On the left, a profile: blood type, pH, gas levels. On the right, an itemized list: platelets, fibrinogen, rbcs &amp; wbcs, antibodies, hormones. All the parts of his lifeblood that had come from nature.</p>
			<p>In the center, another list, somewhat shorter: the parts that had come from CSIRA.</p>
			<p>Desjardins had learned to read the numbers, after a fashion. Everything looked in order. Of course, it was nice to have independent confirmation: the door in front of him was opening, and none of the others were slamming shut.</p>
			<p>He stepped into the boardroom.</p>
			<p>Three people were arrayed at the far end of the conference table. Lertzman sat in his usual seat at the head; to his left was a short blond woman Desjardins hadn’t seen before. Which meant nothing, of course⁠—he didn’t know most of the people in admin.</p>
			<p>To the blonde’s left, another woman. Desjardins didn’t know her either. She looked back at him through eyes that literally glittered⁠—tactical contacts. She was only partly in the room. The rest of her was watching whatever overlays those lenses served up. At the edges of her mouth and around her mercurial eyes, faint lines and a slight droop to the right eyelid; otherwise the face was a pale and featureless sketch, a CaucAsian wash. Her dark hair grayed at the temples, a discoloration that seemed to spread infinitesimally as he watched.</p>
			<p>The corpse from N’AmPac. Had to be.</p>
			<p>Lertzman rose expectantly. The blonde started to follow his lead; halfway out of her chair she glanced at N’AmPac. N’AmPac did not stand. The blonde hesitated, wavered, sat back down. Lertzman cleared his throat and followed suit, waving Desjardins to a seat opposite the two women.</p>
			<p>“This is Patricia Rowan,” Lertzman said. When, after a few moments, it became obvious that nobody was going to introduce the blonde, Desjardins said, “Sorry to keep you waiting.”</p>
			<p>“On the contrary,” Rowan said softly; she sounded tired. “I’m sorry to drag you back here on your down time. Unfortunately, I’m only in town for a few hours.” She tapped commands into a control pad on the table in front of her. Tiny lights scrolled across her eyes. “So. The famous Achilles Desjardins. Savior of the Med.”</p>
			<p>“I just did the stats,” he said. “And they only⁠—postponed the inevitable for a few months.”</p>
			<p>“Don’t sell yourself short,” the corpse said. “Mean event resolution thirty-six point eight minutes. That’s excellent.”</p>
			<p>Desjardins acknowledged with a nod.</p>
			<p>“The metabase,” Rowan continued. “Plagues. Brushfires. Traffic flow. And even setting the Mediterranean aside for the moment, I’m told your projections helped a <i>lot</i> in keeping the Gulf Stream going. A few people have you beat in Maelstrom, certainly, but you’ve got the edge in biocontainment, economics, industrial ecology⁠—”</p>
			<p>Desjardins smiled to himself. Typical old-school: she actually thought she was ticking off a list of <i>different</i> subjects.</p>
			<p>“At any rate,” the corpse continued, “You seem to be the best local candidate for what we have in mind. We’re taking you off your normal rotation and putting you onto a special project, with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Lertzman’s approval of course.”</p>
			<p>“I think we could probably spare him,” Lertzman said, embracing the pretense that his opinion mattered. “In fact, after today I imagine Achilles would probably <i>want</i> to leave Maelstrom behind for a while.”</p>
			<p><i>Enculé</i>. The sentiment was almost a reflex where Lertzman was concerned.</p>
			<p>Rowan again: “There’s a biological event we’d like you to keep an eye on. New soil microbe, from the looks of it. So far it’s had a relatively minor impact⁠—almost negligible, in fact, but the potential, is, well⁠ ⁠…” She inclined her head toward the blonde on her right; on cue, that woman tapped her wristwatch. “If you’d open for download⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>Desjardins tapped the requisite shorthand onto his wrist; transfer protocols flickered briefly across his field of view.</p>
			<p>“You can study the stats afterward,” the blonde told him. “Briefly, though, you’re looking for small-scale substrate acidification, reductions in chlorophyll <i>a</i>, maybe some changes in xanthophylls⁠—”</p>
			<p>Science. No wonder nobody’d bothered to introduce her.</p>
			<p>“⁠—there might be a reduction in soil moisture levels too, but we don’t know yet. Probable decline in Bt and associated microflora. Also we suspect the spread will be temperature-limited. Your job is to develop a diagnostic profile, something we can use to tag this bug from a distance.”</p>
			<p>“That sounds a bit long-term for my skillset,” Desjardins remarked. <i>Not to mention boring as hell.</i> “I’m really more optimized for acute crisis work.”</p>
			<p>Rowan ignored the hint. “That’s not a problem. We selected you for your pattern-recognition skills, not your brushfire reflexes.”</p>
			<p>“Okay, then.” He sighed to himself. “What about an actual signature?”</p>
			<p>“Excuse me?”</p>
			<p>“If you’re talking about depressed chlorophylls, I’m assuming conventional photosynthesizers are being replaced. By what? Any new pigments I should be looking for?”</p>
			<p>“We don’t have a signature yet,” the woman told him. “If you can work one up that’d be great, but we’re not hopeful.”</p>
			<p>“Come on. Everything’s got a signature.”</p>
			<p>“That’s true. But this thing’s direct sig may not show up at a distance until it’s already at outbreak concentrations. We want to catch it before then. Indirect telltales are probably your best bet.”</p>
			<p>“I’d still like the lab stats. An actual culture too, of course.” He decided to float a trial balloon. “Alice Jovellanos could be helpful in this. Her background’s in biochem.”</p>
			<p>“Alice hasn’t had her shots yet⁠—” Lertzman began.</p>
			<p>Rowan smoothly cut him off: “By all means, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Desjardins. Anyone you think could be helpful. Keep in mind though, the security classifications are subject to change. Depending at least partly on your own results, of course.”</p>
			<p>“Thanks. And the culture?”</p>
			<p>“We’ll do what we can. There may be concerns about releasing a live sample, for obvious reasons.”</p>
			<p><i>Uh-huh</i>.</p>
			<p>“Start your search along coastal N’AmPac. We think this bug’s limited to the Pacific northwest. Between Hongcouver and Coos Bay, most likely.”</p>
			<p>“So far,” Desjardins added.</p>
			<p>“With your help, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Desjardins, we don’t expect that to change.”</p>
			<p>He’d seen it all before. Some pharm had lost control of another bug. The quake had cracked open an incubator somewhere, and the competing forces of corporate secrecy and agricultural Armageddon had beat each other senseless in a boardroom somewhere else, and Patricia Rowan⁠—whoever <i>she</i> was working for⁠—had emerged from the wreckage to dump the whole thing into his lap. Without giving him the right tools for the job, natch; by the time they’d skimmed off all the molecules with patents hanging from them, his culture sample would amount to 20cc’s of distilled water.</p>
			<p>A sound sneaked out, half laugh, half snort.</p>
			<p>“Excuse me?” Rowan arched an eyebrow. “You had a comment?”</p>
			<p>A brief, cathartic fantasy:</p>
			<p><i>Actually I have a question, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Ms.</abbr> Rowan.</i> <i>Does all this bullshit turn your crank? Does the senseless withholding of vital information give you some kind of hard-on? It must. I mean, why bother retrofitting me down to the fucking molecules? Why bioengineer me into some paragon of integrity, only to decide I still can’t be trusted when the chips are down? You know me, Rowan. I’m incorruptible. I couldn’t turn against the greater good if my life depended on it.</i></p>
			<p>Into the growing silence, Lertzman emitted a brief panicky cough from behind one clenched fist.</p>
			<p>“Sorry, no. Nothing really.” Desjardins tapped his watch, his hands safely beneath the table. He grabbed at the first heading to come up on his inlays: “It’s just, you know, a cute name. <i>ßehemoth</i>. What’s it from?”</p>
			<p>“It’s biblical,” Rowan told him. “I never liked it much myself.”</p>
			<p>He didn’t need an answer to his unspoken questions anyway. He figured Rowan had a very good reason for playing things so close to her chest; of course she knew he couldn’t work against the greater good.</p>
			<p>But <i>she</i> could.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
