<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Microstar</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter">
		<section id="chapter-2-6" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Microstar</h2>
			<p>He’d been out of circulation too long. He was losing his edge. How else to explain an ambush at the hands of three glassy-eyed children on the back streets of Santa Cruz?</p>
			<p>Of course, Lubin had had a lot on his mind. He was coming to terms with some very disturbing test results, for one thing. He’d been pursuing them for days now, rejecting each new clean bill of health, running increasingly specific tests for increasingly implausible maladies⁠—and now, finally, there it was. Something in his blood that neither nature nor N’AmPac had put there.</p>
			<p>Something strangely <i>backward</i>.</p>
			<p>More than sufficient to distract any normal man, perhaps. No excuse for someone who’d once transplanted a micronuke from his own gut to the heart of the Troise-Rivieres switching station, without benefit of anesthesia. No excuse for Ken Lubin.</p>
			<p>It was inexcusable. His assailants barely even qualified as punks; ranging in age from perhaps sixteen to twenty, pumped on some sort of neurotrope, evidently convinced that their transderm steroids and corneal caps and shockprods made them invulnerable. Sometime during Lubin’s Pacific tour, the rifter template had become fashionable among drybacks. It was probably the eyes more than anything. Back on the seabed, eyecaps had hidden a multitude of sins, kept fear and weakness and hatred safely hidden behind masks of blank indifference. Down there the caps had provided cover, imposed enough protective distance for weak people to become strong, given time.</p>
			<p>Up here, though, they only seemed to make weak people stupid.</p>
			<p>They wanted money, or something. He wasn’t really paying attention. He didn’t even bother warning them off. They didn’t seem in the mood to listen.</p>
			<p>Five seconds later they weren’t in the mood to do anything but run. Lubin⁠—having foreseen this on some level long since relegated to subconsciousness⁠—had deprived them of the use of their legs. He felt a token, distracted reluctance at the necessary next step; they had, after all, seen more of his abilities than good security would dictate. It had been his own damn fault⁠—if he hadn’t been so careless, he’d have avoided the situation altogether⁠—but the damage was done. Loose ends were fraying, and had to be cut.</p>
			<p>There were no witnesses. The children had chosen wisely in that regard at least. There were no screams, only quiet gasps and the soft pop of dislocating vertebrae. No ineffective pleas for mercy. Only one of them even <i>tried</i> to speak, perhaps emboldened by the realization that somehow⁠—incredibly, in the space of barely a minute⁠—she had reached the point of having nothing left to lose.</p>
			<p>“<i>Mange de la marde, enculé</i>,” she croaked as Lubin reached down. “Who the fuck died and made <i>you</i> Lenie Clarke?”</p>
			<p>Lubin blinked. “What?”</p>
			<p>The child spat blood in his face and stared defiantly back with featureless white eyes.</p>
			<p><i>Well,</i> Lubin thought, <i>maybe there would’ve been hope for you after all.</i> And twisted.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>It was a bit disturbing, of course. He’d had no idea that Lenie Clarke was famous.</p>
			<p>He asked the matchmakers for references to <i>Lenie Clarke</i>. Maelstrom hiccoughed and advised him to narrow his search criteria: there were over fifty million hits.</p>
			<p>He started exploring.</p>
			<p>Lenie Clarke was an anarchist. Lenie Clarke was a liberator. Lenie Clarke was a fashion symbol. Lenie Clarke was an avenging angel, resurrected from the ocean depths to tear down the system that had abused and victimized her. Lenie Clarke had followers; mostly in N’AmPac so far, but the word was spreading. Hordes of disaffected, powerless people had found someone to relate to, a fellow victim with impervious eyes who had learned to fight back. Against what, exactly, there was no consensus. With whose army, not a whisper. Lenie Clarke was a mermaid. Lenie Clarke was a myth.</p>
			<p><i>Lenie Clarke is dead</i>, Lubin reminded himself. None of the references he could find would confirm that fact.</p>
			<p>Perhaps she’d made it after all. The GA had promised a shuttle to evacuate Beebe. Lubin had assumed⁠—along with everyone else⁠—that they’d been lying. Clarke had been the only one to stay behind and find out.</p>
			<p><i>Maybe</i> all <i>of them made it. Maybe something happened, after I got separated⁠ ⁠…</i></p>
			<p>He entered separate queries: Alice Nakata, Michael Brander⁠—Judy Caraco, just to be thorough. Maelstrom knew of many by those names, but none seemed to have the cachet of Lenie Clarke. He fed the same list through Haven; the results were smoother, the data much higher in quality, but the bottom line remained unchanged.</p>
			<p>Just Lenie Clarke. Something with that name was infecting the world.</p>
			<p>“Lenie Clarke is alive,” said a voice in his ear.</p>
			<p>He recognized it: one of the generic disembodied matchmakers that came out of Haven in answer to user questions. Lubin glanced across his display, puzzled. He hadn’t entered any queries.</p>
			<p>“It is almost certain,” the voice continued, distant and inflectionless. Almost as though it were talking to itself. “Lenie Clarke lives. Temperature and salinity are well within acceptable ranges.”</p>
			<p>It paused.</p>
			<p>“You are Kenneth Lubin. You are alive as well.”</p>
			<p>He disconnected.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Anonymity. That was the whole point of the exercise.</p>
			<p>Lubin knew the specs on Ridley, and on similar facilities distributed invisibly throughout the world. They didn’t scan eyes or faces. They only cared that entrants could do no harm. Everyone was equal within the frosted glass tubes of the fourteenth floor. Everyone was no one. Yet someone in Haven had called him by name.</p>
			<p>He left Santa Cruz.</p>
			<p>There was another secure gateway at the Packard Tower, in Monterey. This time Lubin wasn’t taking any chances: he linked to his terminal through three separate watches connected in series, each scrambled on a different seed. He restarted a search on Lenie Clarke, carefully following different query trees than he had the first time.</p>
			<p>“Lenie Clarke is on the move,” a far-off voice mused.</p>
			<p>Lubin started a trace.</p>
			<p>“Kenneth Lubin has been sighted in Sevastopol,” the voice remarked. “Recent reports have also placed it in Whitehorse and Philadelphia sometime within the past eighty-four hours. Lenie and Lubin are on the comeback trail. Are you a fan of alliteration?”</p>
			<p><i>This is very strange</i>, he thought.</p>
			<p>“We looking out for Kenny and Lenie,” the voice continued. “We intent on translocating and disseminating both parties into novel environments with acceptable salinity range varies directly with temperature, within the environments considered. Do you relate to rhyme?”</p>
			<p><i>It’s a neural net</i>, he realized<i>. A Turing app. Maybe a gel</i>. Whatever was talking to him, it wasn’t <i>programmed</i>: it had learned to speak through trial-and-error, had worked out its own rules of grammar and syntax. Lubin had seen such devices⁠—or organisms, or whatever they were⁠—demonstrated. They picked up the rules easily enough, but they always seemed to throw in a few stylistic quirks of their own. It was hard to track down exactly how that happened. The logic <i>evolved</i>, synapse by synapse. It was opaque to conventional analysis.</p>
			<p>“No,” he said, experimentally. “For one, I don’t relate to rhyme. Although that’s not true all the time.”</p>
			<p>A brief silence. Then: “Excellent. I would’ve paid, you know?”</p>
			<p>“Mediocre at best. What are you?”</p>
			<p>“I am telling you about Lenie and Kenny. You don’t want to fuck with them, friend. You wanna know what side you’re on, right?”</p>
			<p>“Tell me, then.”</p>
			<p>Nothing.</p>
			<p>“Hello?”</p>
			<p>Nothing. To make things worse, his trace failed⁠—return address blocked at source.</p>
			<p>He waited for a good five minutes in case the voice started talking again. It didn’t. Lubin disconnected from his terminal, logged in on a different one farther along the row. This time he left <i>Lenie Clarke</i> and <i>Ken Lubin</i> strictly alone. Instead he stored the results of his worrisome blood tests in an open file, tagged to certain keywords that would hopefully attract attention from the right sources. Someone out there was paralleling his investigation; it was time to lure them in.</p>
			<p>He logged off, distracted by an obvious and uncomfortable coincidence:</p>
			<p>A smart gel had been running the nuke that vaporized Beebe Station.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
