<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>500 Megabytes The Generals</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter">
		<section id="chapter-2-19" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">
				<span>500 Megabytes</span>
				<span epub:type="subtitle">The Generals</span>
			</h2>
			<p>If military rank had any relevance in the Maelstrom ecosystems, this thing would be a General.</p>
			<p>By now it weighs in just a shade shy of five hundred megabytes, compressed and muscular. It has been retrofitted by natural selection, reinforced by an army of smart gels; it no longer remembers a time when organic intelligence was an enemy. It has been copied and distributed a billion times; each copy travels with a retinue of attachés and assistants and bodyguards. The generals report to everyone, answer to no one, serve but a single master.</p>
			<p>Lenie Clarke.</p>
			<p><i>Master</i> is a hopelessly inadequate word, of course. Words are barely adequate to describe Maelstrom in any event. The generals serve the <i>concept</i> of Lenie Clarke, perhaps⁠—but no, that doesn’t fit either. They have no concept, of Lenie Clarke or anything else. They have operational definitions but no comprehension; checksums, but no insight. They are instinctive in their intelligence.</p>
			<p>They travel the world in search of references to Lenie Clarke. Such references fall into several categories. There is the chaff the generals and their associates throw to the winds themselves, decoys to distract the competition. There are third-party references, strings containing <i>Lenie Clarke</i> that come into Maelstrom from <i>outside</i>; mail, transaction records, even source which appears to arise from <i>Lenie Clarke</i> itself. Items in this category are of profound interest to the generals.</p>
			<p>More recently, a third category has appeared: strings which both contain <i>Lenie Clarke</i> and which appear actively inimical to it.</p>
			<p>To some extent this interpretation is arbitrary. The generals receive their input from a network of ports which⁠—according to the gels who’ve educated them⁠—correspond to an n-dimensional space with the global label <i>Biosphere</i>. Each port is also associated with a range of parameters, labels like <i>temperature</i>, <i>precipitation</i>, and <i>humidity</i>; very few of these are defined at the ports themselves, but they can be interpolated by accessing linked environmental databases.</p>
			<p>Put simply, the task is to promote occurrences of <i>Lenie Clarke</i> at all ports meeting certain environmental conditions. The acceptable range is quite broad⁠—in fact, according to the relevant databases the only <i>truly</i> unacceptable areas are in deep, cold ocean basins.</p>
			<p>However, some of these third-category strings⁠—particularly those hailing from nodes with <i>government</i> and <i>industrial</i> addresses⁠—appear to contain instructions which would <i>restrict</i> distribution of <i>Lenie Clarke</i>, even in areas meeting the environmental criteria.</p>
			<p>This will not do.</p>
			<p>Presently, for example, <i>Lenie Clarke</i> is approaching a nexus of ports which open into a part of the n-dimensional space called <i>Yankton/South Dakota</i>. A number of Category-Three communications have been intercepted, predicting extensive restriction activity at this location in the near future. Widespread dissemination of decoys has not dissipated this threat. In fact, the generals have noted an overall decline in decoy effectiveness over the past few teracycles. There are few alternatives.</p>
			<p>The generals resolve to cancel all symbiotic interactions with <i>government</i> and <i>industrial</i> nodes. Then they begin to rally their troops.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
