<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Behind the Lines</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-3" id="chapter-3-3" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">Behind the Lines</h3>
			<p>A random trawl caught the anomaly fifteen nodes off the port bow. A thousand other channels were abuzz with <i>Lenie Clarke</i>, but this one was so <i>clean</i>: no packet locs, no dropouts, none of the stutters and time-lags that always plagued civilian traffic in Maelstrom. The line was full of groupies with online handles like <i>Squidnapper</i> and <i>White-eyes</i>, all at rapt attention while something whispered disinformation in their midst. It called itself <i>The General</i> and it spoke with a thousand different voices: raw ASCII reinflated to specs set by each recipient’s software.</p>
			<p>It hung up the moment it heard Achilles Desjardins creeping in from behind.</p>
			<p>Too fast for meat. Almost too fast even for the hounds Desjardins set on its trail; they circled the world in seconds, diving through gateways, tripping over wildlife, finding half-eaten carcasses where traffic registries had lived and breathed just moments before. Here, and here, and here: nodes through which The General’s words had passed. Traffic logs mauled beyond recognition by earth-scorchers covering their tracks. The hounds replicated a thousandfold and dived through all available ports in unison, trying reacquire the scent through brute force.</p>
			<p>This time they succeeded. The flag went up on Desjardins’s board at t-plus-six seconds: something had been treed on a server in the Hokkaido microwave array. It wasn’t a smart gel. There were no smart gels for at least four nodes in any direction. But it was dark, and it was massive, and it was holding its breath so tight that nothing could get a fix on its exact address. It was just in there, somewhere. Under the surface.</p>
			<p>And when Achilles Desjardins seined the node, panicky wildlife scattering at his approach, <i>The General</i> was nowhere to be found.</p>
			<p>“Shit<i>⁠ ⁠…</i>”</p>
			<p>He rubbed his eyes and broke the link. The real world resolved around him⁠—or at least, that part of it trapped within the walls of his cubby.</p>
			<p>That was him, he remembered. Trapped in there. Undistracted by the endless frustration of hunting phantoms, it all came flooding back.</p>
			<p>The real world had got even worse, now that Lubin had deserted him.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>A hand on his shoulder. He started, then sagged.</p>
			<p>“Killjoy. You look like shit,” Jovellanos said kindly.</p>
			<p>He looked up at her. “Maybe Rowan’s right.”</p>
			<p>“Rowan?” She laid her hands on his shoulders and started kneading the muscles.</p>
			<p>“It’s not the gels. Maybe it really is some kind of⁠—global conspiracy. I can’t find any other explanation⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>“Uh, Killjoy⁠—in case you’ve forgotten, I haven’t seen you in four days.” Her hair smelled like some extinct flower from Desjardins’s childhood. “I hear you’ve been hobnobbing with all sorts of strange people, but I’m nowhere <i>near</i> the loop, you know?”</p>
			<p>He waved at the board, then realized that she wouldn’t see anything there; he’d routed the display to his inlays. “That whole movement. <i>Rifter chic</i> or whatever the hell they call it, you know? It’s a propagation strategy. That’s all it is. Isn’t that wild?”</p>
			<p>“Yeah? What’s it propagating?”</p>
			<p>“ßehemoth,” Desjardins whispered.</p>
			<p>“<i>No</i>.” Her hands dropped away. “How?”</p>
			<p>“There’s a vector out there. A rifter. Lenie Clarke. It’s all just smoke to keep her from getting caught.”</p>
			<p>“<i>Why</i>, for God’s sake? Why would anyone⁠—”</p>
			<p>“The gels started it. I mean, they weren’t supposed to, they were supposed to <i>contain</i> it, but⁠—”</p>
			<p>“<i>They put the gels in charge?</i>”</p>
			<p>“What else could they do?” Desjardins suppressed the urge to giggle. “Nobody trusted anyone. They knew there’d be sacrifices, they knew they might have to sterilize⁠—major areas. But when Mercosaur says hey, our stats say Oregon’s got to go for the greater good, do you think N’Am’s gonna just roll over and take their <i>word</i> on that? They needed something that could decide, and <i>act,</i> and who wouldn’t play favorites⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>“<i>Fuck</i>,” Jovellanos whispered.</p>
			<p>“They were so busy keeping an eye on each <i>other</i> they never stopped to think what kind of take-home rules a net might develop on its own, after spending a whole lifetime protecting small simple things from big complicated things. And then they tell it to protect a complex of five million species against one pissant nanobe, and they can’t understand why it turns around and bites them in the ass.”</p>
			<p>Jovellanos said nothing.</p>
			<p>“Anyway, it doesn’t matter. They scrubbed the gels down to the last neuron and it didn’t do any good. There’s something else out there. I’ve flushed the fucker four times in the past twenty-four hours, and it keeps slipping through my fingers. We could swap out every gel in Maelstrom and the replacements would be reinfected inside a week.”</p>
			<p>“But if not the gels, then what?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know. For all I know it’s a pharm-baby thing, some corporation’s got a cure and they’re spreading ßehemoth to drive up the price. But <i>how</i> they’re pulling it off⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Turing app, maybe?”</p>
			<p>“Or berserkers. I thought of that. But those leave footprints⁠—op signatures on the hardware, huge memory demands. And anything that complex attracts wildlife like you wouldn’t believe.”</p>
			<p>“You’re not seeing any of that?”</p>
			<p>“Lots of wildlife, maybe. Nothing else.”</p>
			<p>“So maybe it autowipes when it sees you coming.”</p>
			<p>“Footprints’d still be in the server log.”</p>
			<p>“Not if it doctors the log before it deletes.”</p>
			<p>“Then the <i>deletion</i> would be on file. I’m telling you, Alice, this is something else.”</p>
			<p>“What if the wildlife’s gotten brainy?” she said.</p>
			<p>He blinked. “What?”</p>
			<p>“Why not? It evolves. Maybe it got smart.”</p>
			<p>He shook his head. “Nets are nets. Doesn’t matter if someone coded them or they just evolved; if they’re smart enough to think, they’re going to have a certain signature. I’m not seeing it, and nobody else is either and I’m just⁠ ⁠… completely⁠—<i>wasted..</i>.”</p>
			<p>He leaned forward, let the board take the weight of his forearms. His head weighed a tonne.</p>
			<p>“Come on,” Jovellanos said after a moment.</p>
			<p>“What?”</p>
			<p>“We’re going to Pickering’s Pile. I’m buying you a derm. Or ten.”</p>
			<p>He shook his head. “Thanks, Alice. I can’t.”</p>
			<p>“I checked the logs, Killjoy. You haven’t been out of this building for almost forty hours. Sleep deprivation reduces IQ, did you know that? Yours must be around room temp by now. Take a break.”</p>
			<p>He looked up at her. “I <i>can’t</i>. If I leave⁠—”</p>
			<p><i>Don’t worry about it</i>, Lubin had said.</p>
			<p>“⁠—I may not be able to come back,” he finished.</p>
			<p>She frowned. “Why not?”</p>
			<p><i>I’m unchained</i>, he thought. <i>I’m free.</i></p>
			<p>“Lubin⁠—this guy <i>did</i> something to me, and⁠ ⁠… if the bloodhounds⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>She took his hand, firmly. “Come.”</p>
			<p>“Alice, you don’t know what⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Maybe I know more than you think, Killjoy. If you don’t think you’re up to a blood test, well maybe that’s a problem and maybe it isn’t, but you’re gonna have to bite the bullet eventually. Unless you’re planning on spending the rest of your life in this cubicle?”</p>
			<p>“The next five days, maybe⁠ ⁠…” He was so very tired.</p>
			<p>“I know what I’m doing, Killjoy. Trust me on this.”</p>
			<p>Desjardins managed a feeble laugh. “People keep <i>saying</i> that.”</p>
			<p>“Maybe. But I <i>mean</i> it.” She drew him to his feet. “Besides, I have something to tell you.”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>He couldn’t bring himself to enter the Pile, after all; too many ambient ears, and discretion prevailed even without Guilt Trip. For that matter, even walking under the open sky made him a bit queasy. The heavens had eyes.</p>
			<p>They walked, letting chance choose the course. Intermittent beds of kudzu4 lined their path; the filamentous blades of windmills turned slowly overhead on the tops of buildings, along pedestrian concourses, anywhere that a bit of fetch could insinuate itself into the local architecture. Alice Jovellanos took all of it in without a word: Lubin, Rowan, Guilt Trip. Autonomy thrust upon the unwilling.</p>
			<p>“Are you sure?” she asked at last. A streetlight flickered on overhead. “Maybe he was lying. He lied about Rowan, after all.”</p>
			<p>“Not about this, Alice. Believe me. He had his hand around my throat and I just <i>sang</i>, I told him stuff the Trip would <i>never</i>‘ve let out.”</p>
			<p>“That’s not what I mean. I believe you’re Trip-free, for sure. I just don’t believe that Lubin had anything to do with it.”</p>
			<p>“What?”</p>
			<p>“I think he just found out about it, after the fact,” Jovellanos continued, “and he used it to his own advantage. I don’t know what was in those derms he was giving you, but I’d bet a year’s worth of Mandelbrot’s kibble that you could walk past those bloodhounds right now and they wouldn’t even twitch.”</p>
			<p>“Yeah? And if you were in my shoes, do you think you’d be quite so optimistic?”</p>
			<p>“I’d guarantee it.”</p>
			<p>“Fuck, Alice, this is <i>serious</i>.”</p>
			<p>“I know, Killjoy. <i>I’m</i> serious.”</p>
			<p>“But if Lubin didn’t do it to me, then who⁠—”</p>
			<p>Her face was fading in the twilight, like the smile of a Cheshire cat.</p>
			<p>“<i>Alice</i>?” he said.</p>
			<p>“Hey.” She shrugged. “You always <i>knew</i> my politics were a bit radical.”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>“<i>Fuck</i>, Alice.” Desjardins put his head in his hands. “How <i>could</i> you?”</p>
			<p>“It was easier than you might think. Just build a Trip analog with an extra side-group⁠—”</p>
			<p>“That’s not what I mean. You <i>know</i> what I mean.”</p>
			<p>She stepped in front of him, blocking his way.</p>
			<p>“Listen, Killjoy. You’ve got ten times the brains of those felchers, and you let them turn you into a puppet.”</p>
			<p>“I’m not a puppet.”</p>
			<p>“Not any more, anyway.”</p>
			<p>“I never <i>was</i>.”</p>
			<p>“Sure you were. Just like Lubin.”</p>
			<p>“I’m <i>nothing</i> like⁠—”</p>
			<p>“They turned you into one big reflex arc, my man. Took all that gray matter and hammered it into pure hardwired instinct, through and through.”</p>
			<p>“Fuck you. You <i>know</i> that isn’t true.”</p>
			<p>She put her hand on Desjardins’s shoulder. “Look, I don’t blame you for being in denial about⁠—”</p>
			<p>He shrugged it off. “<i>I’m not in denial!</i> You think <i>instinct</i> and <i>reflex</i> can handle the decisions I have to make, every hour I’m on the job? You think weighting a thousand variables on the fly doesn’t require a certain degree of autonomy? Jesus Christ, I⁠—”</p>
			<p>—<i>I may be a slave, but I’m not a robot</i>. He caught it at the back of his throat; no sense giving her any more ammunition than she already had.</p>
			<p>“We gave you back your life, man,” Jovellanos said softly.</p>
			<p>“We?”</p>
			<p>“There’s a few of us. We’re kind of political, in a ragtag sorta way.”</p>
			<p>“Oh Christ.” Desjardins shook his head. “Did you even <i>ask</i> me if I wanted this?”</p>
			<p>“You would’ve said no. Guilt Trip would’ve made you. That’s the whole point.”</p>
			<p>“And just maybe I’d’ve said no <i>anyway</i>, did you ever stop to think of that? I can kill a half-million people before lunchtime; you don’t think it’s a good idea to have <i>safeguards</i> in place? Maybe you remember the buzz on <i>absolute</i> <i>power</i>?”</p>
			<p>“Sure,” Jovellanos said. “Every time I see a Lertzman or a Rowan.”</p>
			<p>“<i>I don’t care about Lertzman or fucking Rowan!</i> You did this to <i>me</i>!”</p>
			<p>“I did it <i>for</i> you, Achilles.”</p>
			<p>He glanced up, startled. “What did you call me?”</p>
			<p>“Achilles.”</p>
			<p>“<i>Jesus.</i>”</p>
			<p>“Listen, you’re safe. The hounds will find Trip in your blood like they always have. That’s the beauty of it, Spartacus doesn’t <i>touch</i> the Trip. It just blocks the receptors.”</p>
			<p>“Spartacus? That’s what you call it?”</p>
			<p>Jovellanos nodded.</p>
			<p>“What’s that supposed to mean?”</p>
			<p>“Look it up. The point is⁠—”</p>
			<p>“And why <i>now</i>, of all times?” Desjardins threw his hands in the air. “If you were going to do this to me you couldn’t have picked a worse time if you <i>tried</i>.”</p>
			<p>She shook her head. “Killjoy, you’re up at bat and the whole world’s hanging in the balance. If you <i>ever</i> needed a clear head, now’s the time. You can’t afford to be chained to <i>any</i> corpse agenda. <i>Nobody</i> can afford it.”</p>
			<p>He glared at her. “You are such a fucking hypocrite, Alice. You <i>infected</i> me. You didn’t ask, you didn’t even <i>tell</i>, you just stuck me with some bug that could get me thrown out of my job, or worse⁠—”</p>
			<p>She raised her hands, as if to ward off his words. “Achilles, I⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Yeah, yeah, you did it <i>for</i> me. What an altruist. Ramming Spartacus Brand Home-Cooked Autonomy down my throat whether I like it or not. I’m your friend, Alice! <i>Why did you do this?</i>”</p>
			<p>She stared at him for a moment in the fading light.</p>
			<p>“You don’t know?” she said at last, in a cold angry voice. “The goddamned boy genius doesn’t have a clue? Why don’t you do a path analysis or something to find out?”</p>
			<p>She spun on her heel and walked away.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
