<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>AWOL</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter">
		<section id="chapter-3-8" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">AWOL</h2>
			<p>“There’s been a breach,” the corpse said. “We were hoping you could fill in some relevant details.”</p>
			<p>Half of Alice Jovellanos’s facial muscles tried to go into spasm right there. She clamped a tight lid on their aspirations and presented what she hoped was a look of <i>oh please God let it be</i> innocent and concerned curiosity.</p>
			<p><i>Then again</i>, <i>what’s the point?</i> whispered some smart-ass inner voice. <i>They must know already. Why else would they even call you in?</i></p>
			<p>She clamped down on that one, too.</p>
			<p>
				<i>They’re just toying with you. No one gets to be a corpse without developing a taste for sadism.</i>
			</p>
			<p>And that⁠ ⁠… just barely.</p>
			<p>There were four of them, gender-balanced, ringed around the far side of the conference table up in the stratosphere of Admin-14. Slijper was the only one Jovellanos recognized⁠—she’d just been brought in as Lertzman’s replacement. The corpses all sat arrayed on the far side of the table, backlit by little halogen spots, their faces lost in the shadow of that glare. Except for the eyes. All four sets of eyes twinkled intermittently with corporate intel.</p>
			<p>They’d be monitoring her vitals, of course. They’d know she was stressed. Of course, anyone would be stressed under these conditions. Hopefully subtleties like <i>guilt</i> and <i>innocence</i> were beyond the scope of the remotes.</p>
			<p>“You’re aware of the recent attack on Don Lertzman,” Slijper said.</p>
			<p>Jovellanos nodded.</p>
			<p>“We think it may have been connected with a colleague of yours. Achilles Desjardins.”</p>
			<p><i>Okay, just the right amount of surprise here</i>⁠ ⁠… “Achilles? Why?”</p>
			<p>“We were hoping you could tell us,” one of the other corpses replied.</p>
			<p>“But I don’t know any⁠—I mean, why not ask him directly?” <i>They already have, you idiot. That’s what led them to you, he sold you out, after all this he sold⁠—</i></p>
			<p>“⁠—disappeared,” Slijper finished.</p>
			<p>Jovellanos straightened in her chair. “Excuse me?”</p>
			<p>“I said, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Desjardins seems to have gone AWOL. When he didn’t show up for his shift we were concerned that he might have run into the same complications as Don, but the evidence suggests he disappeared of his own volition.”</p>
			<p>“Evidence?”</p>
			<p>“He wants you to feed his cat,” Slijper said.</p>
			<p>“He⁠—what do⁠—”</p>
			<p>Slijper held up one hand: “I know, and I hope you’ll forgive the intrusion. He left the message on your queue. He said he didn’t know how long he was going to be gone, but he’d be grateful if you took care of⁠—Mandelbot, is it?⁠—and he’d keyed the door to let you in. At any rate”⁠—the hand dropped back below table level⁠—“this kind of behavior is frankly unprecedented from anyone on the Trip. He seems to have simply abandoned his post, with no apology, no explanation, no advance warning. It’s⁠—impulsive, to say the least.”</p>
			<p><i>Oh, man. Killjoy, you were</i> covered<i>. Why’d you have to blow it?</i></p>
			<p>“I didn’t know that was even possible,” Jovellanos said. “He had his shots years ago.”</p>
			<p>“Nonetheless, here we are.” Slijper leaned back in her chair. “We were wondering if you had noticed anything unusual in his behavior lately. Anything which, looking back, might have suggested⁠—”</p>
			<p>“No. Nothing. Although⁠—” Jovellanos took a breath. “Actually, he <i>has</i> been kind of⁠—I don’t know, <i>withdrawn</i> lately.” <i>Well, it’s true enough, and they probably know already; it’d look suspicious if I</i> didn’t <i>mention it⁠ ⁠…</i></p>
			<p>“Any idea why?” asked another corpse.</p>
			<p>“Not really.” She shrugged. “I’ve seen it happen before⁠—it’s bound to wear on you, having to deal with high-level crises all the time. And Tripped people can’t always talk about what’s on their minds, you know? So I just let him be.”</p>
			<p>
				<i>Please, please, please don’t let them have high-level telemetry on me now⁠ ⁠…</i>
			</p>
			<p>“I see,” Slijper said. “Well, thank you anyway, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Jovellanos.”</p>
			<p>“Is that all?” She started to rise.</p>
			<p>“Not quite,” said one of the other corpses. “There’s one other thing. Concerning⁠—”</p>
			<p>—<i>Oh please no⁠—</i></p>
			<p>“⁠—your <i>own</i> involvement in all this.”</p>
			<p>Jovellanos slumped back into her chair and waited for the axe to fall.</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Desjardins’s disappearance leaves⁠—well, a vacancy we really can’t afford at this time,” the corpse continued.</p>
			<p>Jovellanos looked at the backlit tribunal. A tiny part of her dared to hope.</p>
			<p>“You worked closely with him through a great deal of this. We understand that your own contribution to date hasn’t been negligible⁠—in fact, you’ve been working below your own potential for some time now. And you’re certainly farther up the learning curve than anyone else we could bring in at this point. On the usual scales you’re overdue for a promotion. But apparently⁠ ⁠… that is, according to Psych you have certain objections to taking Guilt Trip⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>
				<i>I. Can’t. Believe. It.</i>
			</p>
			<p>“Now please understand, we don’t hold this against you,” said the corpse. “Your issues concerning invasive technology are⁠—very understandable, after what happened to your brother. I can’t honestly say I’d feel any differently in your shoes. That whole nanotech thing was such a debacle⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p>A sudden, familiar lump rose in Jovellanos’s throat.</p>
			<p>“So you see, we understand your objections. But perhaps <i>you</i> could understand that Guilt Trip hails from a whole different arena, there’s certainly nothing <i>dangerous⁠—</i>”</p>
			<p>“I do know the difference between bio and nano,” Jovellanos said mildly.</p>
			<p>“Yes, of course⁠ ⁠… I didn’t mean to⁠—”</p>
			<p>“It’s just that, what happened to Chito⁠—logic doesn’t always enter into it when you⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<p><i>Chito</i>. <i>Poor, dead, tortured Chito. These haploids don’t have the slightest clue the things I’ve done.</i></p>
			<p>
				<i>All for you, kiddo.</i>
			</p>
			<p>“Yes. We understand that, of course. And even though your prejudice⁠—again, entirely understandable⁠—even though it’s held you back professionally, you’ve proven to be an exceptional performer. The question is, after all these years, will you <i>continue</i> to be held back?”</p>
			<p>“Because we all think that would be a shame,” Slijper said.</p>
			<p>Jovellanos looked across the table and said nothing for a full ten seconds.</p>
			<p>“I think.⁠ ⁠… I think maybe it’s time to let go,” she said at last.</p>
			<p>“So you’d be willing to get your shots and move up to senior ‘lawbreaker,” Slijper said.</p>
			<p>
				<i>For you, Chito. Onward and upward.</i>
			</p>
			<p>Alice Jovellanos nodded gravely, stoically refusing to let her facial muscles do a whole different kind of dance. “I think I’d be up for that.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
