<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>The Next Best Thing</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-1-20" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="title">The Next Best Thing</h3>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>Registry Assistance.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“Clarke, Indira. Clarke with an ’e’. Apartment 133, CitiCorp 421, Coulson Avenue, Sault-Sainte-Marie.”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>Clarke, Indira</p>
				<p>Apartment 133, CitiCorp 421, Coulson Ave.</p>
				<p>Sault-Sainte-Marie ON</p>
				<p>Correct?</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>Failed to match. Do you know Indira Clarke’s WestHem ID#?</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“Uh, no. The address might not be current, it was fifteen, sixteen years ago.”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>Current archives are three years deep. Do you know Indira Clarke’s middle name?</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“No. She fished Maelstrom, though. Freelance, I think.”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>Failed to match.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“How many Indira Clarkes in Sault-Sainte-Marie?”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>5</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“How many with an only child, female, born⁠—born in February, uh⁠—”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>Failed to match.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“Wait, February⁠—sometime in February, 2018⁠ ⁠…”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>Failed to match.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“…”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>Do you have another request?</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“How many in all of N’Am, professional affiliation with the Maelstrom fishery, with an only female child born February 2018, named Lenie?”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>Failed to match.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“How many in the whole <i>world</i>, then?”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>Failed to match.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“That’s not possible.”</p>
			<blockquote class="network-post" epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<p>There are several possible reasons why your search has failed. The person you’re seeking may be unlisted or deceased. You may have provided incorrect information. Registry archive data may have been corrupted, despite our ongoing efforts to maintain a complete and accurate database.</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“That’s <i>not fucking pos⁠—</i>”</p>
			<p>Disconnect.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
